One General Electric Co 's biggest business , aircraft engine , ride wave increasing profit 1991 new contract worth 650 mln dlrs , Wall Street analyst said .
Previously , expected business would peak decline point next five year .
The improved outlook result AMR Corp 's & lt ; AMR > decision order 40 new plane powered CF6-80C2 GE engine .
`` Creative financial footwork helped GE get order , '' said Nicholas Heymann , analyst Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. AMR declined go detail financing arrangement order 15 Boeing Co & lt ; BA > 25 & lt ; Airbus Industrie > twinjet long distance aircraft .
But AMR said using `` rent-a-plane lease '' allow operate aircraft without adding debt structure .
AMR also right decline delivery plane return short notice .
The arrangement protects AMR case unexpected development severe downturn economy .
From GE 's point view package look like good deal several reason , Heymann said .
GE able record revenue sale time delivery , Heymann noted .
And reason AMR decides take plane GE 's financial arm , General Electric Financial Services Inc , would little trouble rounding another airline wanted fuel efficient plane .
On whole , deal appears pose little risk GE , Heymann said .
GE 's stock declined 1/4 103-1/2 625,000 share midafternoon .
H.P .
Smith , analyst Smith Barney , Harris Upham Co said 40 billion dlr ( revenue ) company `` one order much effect stock .
'' Russell Leavitt , analyst Salomon Brothers Inc , said order `` help maintain good level production profitability aircraft engine business '' GE .
Heymann see operating profit GE 's jet engine business rising 870 mln dlrs last year 1.3 billion dlrs 1991 .
Revenue jet engine close six billion dlrs last year , well half business military sector , according analyst ' estimate .
The rosy outlook GE 's jet engine business coincides upbeat performance segment .
Heymann expects GE earn 1.39 dlrs per share first quarter 1987 .
Saying many suprised result , belief GE shown acquisition RCA Corp `` unique ability '' buy major business reshape , pruning part recombining part element 14 business area .
Smith see GE earning 1.35 dlrs per share current quarter .
He credit good result RCA , turn aided NBC broadcasting operation , lower interest rate .
Leavitt see 1.40 dlrs current quarter , part crediting `` significant benefit RCA acquisition .
'' Reuter & # 3 ; 