Crude oil price rallied today , moving 17.00 dlrs barrel Saudi Arabia 's determined effort support price , analyst said .
`` The Saudis OPEC nation jawboning market , hoping restore confidence price without another meeting , '' said Sanford Margoshes , oil analyst Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. `` But OPEC wood yet longshot due seasonal decline demand cheating , '' added .
Oil industry analyst said Saudi Arabia led attempt get OPEC member resist pressure discount official price agreed last december .
The analyst said get others hold line , Saudi Arabia pushed hard meeting deputy oil minister Gulf Cooperation Council last weekend Cooperation Council oil minister ' meeting previous week .
The Saudis also offered support member difficulty selling oil , analyst said .
`` They trying make sure one discount , prevent , appears Saudi Arabia OPEC member allocate oil sale help member lose sale , '' Margoshes said .
He added allocation would probably form loan repaid nation resume sale .
Analysts said would useful keeping line nation like Qatar , trouble selling oil .
But also likely assistance would provided Nigeria pressure extend discount .
Analysts said Saudi Arabia , assistance OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman , trying avoid emergency OPEC meeting fear would give appearance December pact falling apart .
Daniel McKinley , oil analyst Smith Barney , Upham Harris Co said , `` physical future market oversold took small spark bring short covering rally .
'' He belief Iranian trade mission Tokyo , refused discount Japanese buyer , brought Japanese refiner market cover short position .
Oil trader said one japanese refiner came market 10 cargo May Dubai , sent price Mideast sour , Dubai trading 16.50 dlrs trading yeterray low 15.63 dlrs spilled North sea crude oil market .
Traders said persistent rumor today Japanese buyer looking pick cargo Brent Japan European trade source indidate rumor vessel fixed make shipment .
North sea brent today rose 17.00 dlrs trade reported high 17.05 dlrs , one dlr .
OPEC member ' denial producing quota sparked move cover short postitions .
Indonesian oil minister Subroto said today OPEC production 15.8 mln bpd quota agreed last december gave detail OPEC production claim least one mln bpd level .
`` The production probably quota level largely Saudi Arabia discount canot sell oil result , '' Margoshes said .
Analysts mixed opinion extent current rally .
Some believe price continue rise Saudi Arabia OPEC hold steady refusal discount .
But others said despite rally today still several fundamental factor , including demand , could cut rally short .
Marion Stewart , indepedent petroleum economist , said slow growth economy U.S. OECD would keep demand oil slack estimate demand rise 1.4 pct 1986 .
Reuter & # 3 ; 