Coffee price may fall even lower bring exporting importing country round negotiating table discus export quota , ICO delegate trader said .
The failure last night International Coffee Organization , ICO , producing consuming country agree export quota brought sharp fall international coffee future market today London May price reaching 4-1/2 year low one stage 1,270 stg per tonne ending day 1,314 stg , 184 stg previous close .
The New York May price 15.59 108.00 cent lb .
Pressure build producer returning ICO talk sell coffee held back hope negotiation would establish quota would put floor price , senior trader said .
The ICO 15 day average price stood 114.66 cent lb March 2 .
This compare target range 120 140 cent lb system operating quota suspended February last year following sharp rise international price caused drought damage Brazilian crop .
In Reuter interview , Brazilian Coffee Institute , IBC , President Jorio Dauster urged producer panic said need make hard commercial decision .
`` If failed ICO , least tried , '' Dauster said , adding `` time go sell coffee .
'' But Brazil keeping marketing option open .
It plan make official estimate forthcoming crop next month , Dauster said .
It difficult forecast .
Trade source put crop 26 mln bag compared previous crop 11.2 mln .
Brazil defining detail public selling tender coffee bought London 's future market last year .
A basic condition go back market `` one go '' sold minimum six month .
The breakdown ICO negotiation reflected split producer consumer set yardstick future quota .
Consumers said `` objective criterion '' like average export stock determine producer quota share , Dauster said .
All element proposal open negotiation consumer insisted want return `` ad hoc '' way settling export quota virtual horse trading amongst producer whilst consumer waited corridor ICO .
Dauster said stock export ICO member non-members need considered setting quota Brazil would like apply coffee pact set ratio overall quota reflecting stock holding .
It `` simplistic misconception Brazil dictate '' policy producer .
While consumer country welcome participate dictate quota difficult allocate different `` objective criterion '' achieve different share-out quota , Dauster said .
Other delegate said open talking ICO least difference hidden bad compromise .
Consumer delegate said prepared accept producer ' offer abandon quota prof impossible find acceptable basis .
`` We want basis quota reflect availability encourage stock holding alternative buffer stock supply needed later stage , '' one delegate said .
Some consumer claimed producer support consumer argument gaining momentum towards end ICO session said uncertain whether collapse much producer sink difference price fall remain depressed .
The ICO executive board meet March 30 April 1 producer consumer delegate said doubt real negotiation begin .
The board due meet Indonesia June full council scheduled September .
More cynical trader said pressure market force politics debt heavy Latin American producer country could bring ICO member back around negotiating table sooner many imagine .
In case quota could come force summer .
But delegate trader said quota October unlikely , Brazil 's Dauster noted ICO continued although quota 1972 1980 .
A clear difference pressure already felt importer exporter consumer would happy agree formula future quota even could imposed .
At least way said could show direct relationship quota availability .
In contrast producer wanted stop-gap quota plug seemingly bottomless market prepared allow lapse lasting agreement found .
`` Producers offering u jam tomorrow failure discus last year promise insufficient wanted cast iron commitment , '' one consumer said .
Reuter & # 3 ; 