A leaf disease affecting seven pct Sri Lanka 's rubber plantation may reduce output year raise currently depressed price , industry official researcher told Reuters .
About 2,900 hectare rubber planted Rubber Research Institute ( RRI ) clone 103 hit fungus '' corenes pora '' attack root tree kill leaf .
The disease first discovered six month ago .
Trade source say price might boom crisis lead output 1987 target 143,000 tonne .
Last year 's output estimated 133,000 135,000 tonne .
Researchers say fungus could spread rubber clone immediate action taken .
`` The RRI considering asking estate remove tree seriously affected fungus late use chemical kill disease , '' Institute spokesman said .
Senior industry research official met yesterday Padukka , east , discus way controlling fungus affecting estate mostly belonging State Plantations Corp Janatha Estates Development Board .
The two state-owned group account 30 pct rubber land balance belonging small private producer total 145,600 hectare .
The RRIC 103 new clone propagated Research Institute high yielding recommended two year ago planting .
Only two state group seriously planted clone smallholder preferred low-yielding older PBX Malaysian clone .
Officials yesterday 's crisis meeting said decided uproot affected tree others would treated .
They declined comment decision taken .
Trade source said supply improved past week price hit lowest since last December .
`` If shortage rubber , price bound rise , '' spokesman company buying behalf Soviet Union said .
Rubber price , particularly crepe , fell sharply four rupee kilo December March .
The best crepe one-X traded 23.68 rupee kilo , averaged 19.75 week 's auction .
Sheet price fell rupee period .
Quantities offered auction also fell average 300 tonne per auction last month 800 tonne December wintering early February producing area .
Over 550 tonne offered Tuesday 's auction supply position showing improvement .
Trade source said smaller availability rubber last month raise price previous occasion .
`` Some factor , like le storage space excess stock , meant could buy much auction disposed rubber already , '' one buyer said .
Other source said forward contract speculative buying last month , delay steamer arrival aggravated problem .
European buyer delayed purchase winter closure factory also hope price would ease .
They said another problem could hit industry dry spell producing area .
`` If inter-monsoonal rain expected late March/April delayed , would shortage , '' one official said .
`` But could benefit price , '' buyer said .
Reuter & # 3 ; 