The Federal Reserve Board voted unanimously propose formula calculating risk interest rate currency swap part ongoing effort come new capital standard U.S. bank take account riskiness bank 's loan asset .
Fed official said identical proposal issue today Bank England .
The Fed set 60-day period public comment plan .
The proposal adopted today address credit risk associated interest rate swap , forward foreign exchange contract similar financial instrument .
Previously , Fed Jan. 8 proposed series guideline calculating risk off-balance-sheet activity bank would required take account calculating minimum financial cushion would need maintain .
Both guideline set five broad category risk loan bank asset assigned level risk would establish bank 's minimum capital need .
The additional guideline proposed today would determine amount capital support required bank 's current exposure given asset potential future exposure .
The current exposure would measured mark-to-market value asset , would reflect replacement cost .
Potential future increase replacement cost would calculated using credit conversion factor based statistical analysis staff Bank England U.S. banking regulator .
Future exposure would rise life asset .
The Fed staff said risk gauge attempted balance conflicting need precision simplicity .
They ignore , example , relative volatility particular currency involved exchange rate contract .
Board official said new gauge could increase capital required largest money center bank , principal participant type activity .
They cautioned Fed board take account potential impact plan ability U.S. bank compete world financial market .
However , staff concluded , `` The credit risk inherent contract constitute significant element risk profile banking organization .
'' The Fed proposal would exempt 20-25 largest participant market , ground benefit including smaller bank would outweighed cost .
Also excluded would interest rate foreign exchange contract traded organized exchange .
Governor Martha Seger said concerned Japan involved U.K.-U.S. effort draft new capital rule .
Reuter & # 3 ; 