The Bank England U.S. Federal Reserve Board agreed new proposal joint standard measure risk array credit exposure show bank balance sheet , Bank England said .
The plan , covering swap , forward contract option involving interest exchange rate , complement proposal agreed January two central bank make commercial bank U.S. And Britain subject similar standard measuring capital adequacy , proposal said .
It said final decision reached yet bank April 16 comment trunk proposal .
The Bank England Fed said faced dilemma .
`` On one hand ( ) determined require adequate capital support potential future exposure -- hand ( ) concerned overly stringent capital requirement might unnecessarily affect ability U.S. And U.K. Banking organisation price ... Contracts competitively .
'' At basis new proposal lie concept so-called credit equivalent amount - current value currency interest rate contract estimate potential change value due currency interest rate fluctuation contract matures .
In treatment similar agreed January balance sheet asset , credit equivalent assigned one five risk weight zero 100 pct , depending quality counterparty , remaining maturity contract collateral guarantee contract , plan showed .
The proposal showed collateral guarantee would recognised calculating credit equivalent amount .
They would , however , reflected assignment risk weight .
The guarantee recognised given U.S. And U.K .
Governments , U.S. , By domestic national government agency , proposal showed .
The paper said proposed rule would cover spot foreign exchange contract security traded future option exchange .
It said U.S. Regulatory authority Bank England keen encourage bank `` net '' contract -- consolidate multiple contract counterparty one single agreement create one single payment stream .
It recognised `` arrangement may certain circumstance reduce credit risk wish encourage development implementation , '' said current proposal may changed take account .
The paper said proposed rule would cover spot foreign exchange contract security traded future option exchange .
It said U.S. Regulatory authority Bank England keen encourage bank `` net '' contract -- consolidate multiple contract counterparty one single agreement create one single payment stream .
It recognised `` arrangement may certain circumstance reduce credit risk wish encourage development implementation , '' said current proposal may changed take account .
Reuter & # 3 ; 