Healthy growth corporate profit consumer spending , two pillar Japan rest hope sustained economic growth , look rotten core , economist polled Reuters said .
Profits domestic consumption meant replace export engine growth .
But close tie corporate performance wage mean alternative economic model promise little slower growth , said .
Falling profit may lead falling income , turn cut sale reduce profit .
The Bank Japan said latest outlook improved term trade linked strong yen would help domestic demand grow steadily .
However , would happen household spending increased line value real financial asset due stable price , and/or corporate investment recovered profit domestic sale improved compared export .
`` No clear sign development far evidenced , '' central bank said .
Poor business prospect reason economic growth slow , even though Japan 's term trade improved sharply due strong yen .
Economist David Pike Phillips Drew estimate 1986 unit cost price fell 30 pct output price fell eight pct , giving large price margin advantage domestic market -- long company pas advantage consumer .
Last year 's gap almost 10 percentage point fall wholesale price index slight drop consumer price show gain improved term trade kept profit producer distributor .
The economist , however , believe layer fat protect company short .
As firm seek profit home instead abroad , already fierce domestic competition increase , fueled lower-priced import .
Retail price fall .
Profit margin suffer .
A December survey top business organisation Keidanren confirms dim view taken firm .
Of company polled key manufacturing sector , almost 80 pct thought high yen would create drop production volume 60 pct predicted drop corporate performance , said Keidanren economist Kazuyuki Kinbara .
Main counter-measures cited firm include cutting unprofitable operation , reducing work sub-contractors ( employ significant number worker ) , holding wage , reducing bonus .
The government said fear unemployment could soon double three pct .
Unemployment slow wage growth obviously hurt sale .
But reduced bonus , worry individual financial security could even damaging .
Twice year , bonus provide wage earner amount enforced lump sum saving , encouraging buy large consumer product sparking sale bonanza .
To save fund , big firm begun form tied bonus , forcing employee spend firm 's good .
Economists also predict Japanese save le average 16 pct salary .
On contrary , poor outlook lower disposable income could strengthen resolve put money aside old age illness , education , housing -- main drain working man 's salary .
The last government survey public opinion said 80 pct citizen continue economise .
Japan rapidly ageing population minimal social security worker fear poverty old age .
Faced vicious circle , government's reflationary strategy severely limited .
The commitment ruling Liberal Democratic Party Finance Ministry cut state debt resulted small supplementary budget attempt provide fiscal incentive without reducing revenue .
Independent economist le excited result .
Provision monetary stimulus similarly limited .
The 2.5 pct discount rate low politically impossible cut , basic bank saving rate 0.25 pct , Bank Tokyo economist Haruo Muto said .
Almost 60 pct Japanese still hold saving kind deposit , official figure show .
Moves directly inject liquidity unproductive firm planning cut capital investment .
The central bank well aware soaring stock land price current result high liquidity .
Fear inflation also limit policy option .
Political analyst ascribe Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone 's 1986 big election victory largely long period almost zero price inflation .
And found year attempt impose sale tax offset tax cut arouses fierce voter opposition .
REUTER & # 3 ; 