Switzerland 's economy , combining low unemployment , financial stability large external payment surplus , excellent condition face satisfactory future , Organisation Economic Cooperation Development , OECD , said .
This reflected success stable relatively tight fiscal monetary policy followed government , said .
The OECD , annual report Switzerland , picked sign slowdown activity slight pick-up inflation year , said gave cause concern .
The study forecast decline Gross Domestic Product growth 1.75 pct year estimated two pct 1986 small rise consumer price inflation 1.25 pct last year 's sharp fall 0.75 pct 3.6 pct 1985 .
But said job creation continue absorb modest increase workforce , leaving unemployment rate unchanged around one pct , lowest 24-industrial nation OECD area .
Assuming average exchange rate 1.71 Swiss franc dollar year , 1.69 second half 1986 , report forecast 2.75 pct rise export 3.5 pct rise import year rise 3.25 pct 6.5 pct respectively 1986 .
The faster growth import compared export year last , reflecting buoyant private consumption , meant contribution foreign payment balance GDP would shrink year .
But `` given Switzerland 's large external surplus , concern domestic demand grows faster GDP ... Which , small way , would contribute improving international balance , '' OECD said .
Real private consumption appeared unusually buoyant last year , 3.25 pct growth rate , several year relative weakness , noted .
In 1987 private consumption expected slow somewhat 2.25 pct growth rate , still outstrip overall GDP , added .
The outlook investment plant machinery remained bright 1987 , capacity use near record level last year scope rationalisation modernisation industry service sector , said .
As consequence , growth machinery equipment investment likely decelerate slightly year vigorous growth 1986 .
But report raised questionmark prospect tourism banking industry , two major service sector earner foreign exchange .
The long-term appreciation Swiss Franc , accelerating deregulation foreign banking market , could lead loss international market share , said .
Particularly bank , `` recent development international financial market give rise question whether Swiss financial system , shown substantial flexibility past , adapting speed required ... To preserve competitive position , '' said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 