Key tax budget lawmaker Wednesday expressed reservation suggested new security tax , aroused concern Wall Street put pressure brokerage stock .
Grappling need either raise tax cut federal spending meet fiscal 1988 budget deficit target 108 billion dlrs , House Speaker Jim Wright suggested tax studied one way raise federal revenue .
The Texas Democrat 's idea first presented House Ways Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski week would tax sale purchase security .
A tax 0.25 0.5 percent would raise 8.5 17 billion dlrs year .
Rostenkowski , chief taxwriter , considers early back tax increase idea agreed add security transfer tax long list tax alternative review congressional tax analyst , spokesman said .
The Illinois Democrat repeatedly stressed year reluctant back tax increase long President Reagan maintains staunch opposition .
`` First 've got decide whether raise additional revenue .
Only consider specific option .
At point nothing table .
It 's early , '' Rostenkowski said statement .
He made commitment Wright private meeting Tuesday , fact asked one , House source said .
The idea presented something might might valuable , said .
House Budget Committee chairman William Gray agreed another option looked , Congress decided needed raise revenue reduce deficit , aide said .
The Pennsylvania Democrat intend recommend specific tax proposal , aide said .
The Budget Committee recommend certain amount revenue raised 1988 , leave taxwriting committee decision tax raised .
The security transfer tax would raise hefty amount revenue ease Congress 's difficult task trimming deficit 61 billion dlrs year meet target .
But Congress feared tax could drive security business offshore hurt U.S. investment , uncertainty detail tax .
Democrats united behind budget alternative far year .
This week scheduled discus budget possible spending cut tax increase decision anticipated , congressional source said .
At time , without President Reagan 's assent general tax increase , left piecemeal tax guaranteed anger must pay .
`` We could , '' one congressional source said various tax idea -- excise tax , security tax , oil import fee others .
Reuter & # 3 ; 