Trans World Airlines Inc complicated bidding Piedmont Aviation Inc offering either buy Piedmont suitor USAir Group , alternatively , merge Piedmont USAir .
Piedmont 's board meeting today , Wall Street speculated board discussing opposing bid Norfolk Southern Corp USAir .
The TWA offer announced shortly Piedmont board meeting scheduled begin .
TWA offered buy USAir 52 dlrs cash per share .
It also said largest shareholder USAir threatened go directly USAir shareholder offer 51 pct stock lower price .
TWA also said believed offer better deal USAir shareholder acquisition Piedmont , said alternatively would discus three-way combination airline .
Market source analyst speculated TWA chairman Carl Icahn made offer order put airline takeover arena .
`` We 're wondering 's trying get TWA play .
There 's speculation street want move onto somthing else , '' said one arbitrager .
`` We think TWA might putting trial balloon .
'' Analysts said offer must taken seriously USAir , airline probably reject price relatively low compared airline deal .
They also said Icahn must prove offer credible revealing financing arrangement .
`` They need show commitment ability finance .
I think 's credible offer , '' said Timothy Pettee , Bear Stearns analyst .
`` I think 's certainly low end relative value airline deal , '' said Pettee .
Pettee estimated 58 dlrs would reasonable range based airline merger .
USAir stock soared TWA made public offer .
A spokesman USAir declined comment , said USAir changed offer Piedmont .
USAir offered buy 50 pct airline 's stock 71 dlrs cash per share balance 73 dlrs per share USAir stock .
USAir closed 5-3/8 49-1/8 volume 1.9 mln share .
Piedmont , slipped 1/2 close 69-5/8 , also remained silent TWA action .
Piedmont outstanding 65 dlr cash per share offer Norfolk Southern Corp. Norfolk Southern declined comment , said stuck offer Piedmont .
Norfolk owns 20 pct Piedmont opened bidding said would propose takeover Piedmont .
Some analyst said Icahn may trying acquire USAir make airline attractive takeover target .
`` Icahn I think wanted sell airline taker .
I think strategy might called making investment attractive .
One way accomplish specific objective go acquire airline , '' said Andrew Kim Eberstadt Fleming .
`` I n't know whose going buy , least way becomes much viable package , '' said Kim .
But Icahn 's financing ability transaction remains doubt , part TWA 's heavy debt load .
Wall street source said TWA cash offer .
The source said Icahn lined outside financial adviser plan make arrangement .
Icahn earlier year abandoned plan buy USX Corp & lt ; X > still retains 11 pct company 's stock .
Some Wall street source said financier 's USX plan impacted cloud hanging adviser , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc , Wall Street 's insider trading scandal .
Industry source also predicted USAir might reject TWA offer price financing concern .
`` It 's littered contingency n't even financing arrangement , '' said one executive another major airline .
But executive conceded merged TWA-USAir would strong contender USAir 's east coast route system planned west coast presence PSA .
USAir could feed intenrational flight TWA , midwest presence St. Louis hub .
Adding Piedmont , dominant southeast , mix would develop even stronger force .
The combined entity would also TWA 's par reservation system .
Such merger would complex analyst said would result airline iwth 18 pct market share .
Reuter & # 3 ; 