Indonesia head general election six week ' time economy worst shape 20 year , economist official said .
The government expects spillover `` people power '' neighbouring Philippines unsettle 20-year rule President Suharto , victory whose ruling Golkar party coming parliamentary election assured .
However , Western diplomat said country's deteriorating economic position main threat stability .
Last year 's collapse oil price dealt heavy blow Indonesia , halving revenue oil gas export 6.5 billion dlrs last year 12.4 billion 1985 .
Oil gas account 70 pct export income .
The result run-up April 23 election , Suharto , far wooing 168 mln countryman pay increase tax cut , busy slashing budget spending .
The government also recently increased transport fare frozen pay civil service army second year running , despite inflation estimated 8.8 pct .
The current account deficit rose 4.09 billion dlrs 1986 1.8 billion 1985 , debt service ratio widened 33.2 pct 1987 25 pct 1986 .
Foreign debt repayment 4.6 billion dlrs account almost third 1987/88 budget .
A recent U.S. Embassy report economy said 1986 gross domestic product growth lowest since mid-1960s Suharto came power .
Western economist said GDP registered nil growth contracted last year 1.9 pct growth 1985 , predicted one pct rise year .
In effort return growth seen oil-boom year 1970s economy grew average seven pct , government relying foreign borrowing .
Indonesia asked foreign government finance share new project built overseas money , afford even meet local cost .
In last three month Indonesia taken new loan totalling 1.55 billion dlrs , top external debt 37 billion dlrs .
Western banker said needed , country rank sixth among Third World debtor .
A 350 mln dlr commercial loan signed Tokyo December followed first week February 300 mln dlr loan World Bank support balance payment .
Last month , Japan 's Export-Import Bank agreed 900 mln dlr loan meet Indonesia 's share 21 World Bank project would otherwise scrapped postponed .
More loan way , including two World Bank worth total 300 mln dlrs road irrigation .
U.S .
Ambassador Paul Wolfowitz said recent speech economic growth remains key preserving Indonesia's fundamental stability .
The largest Moslem nation world , Indonesia far avoided extreme path Moslem country .
But World Bank warned mounting unemployment could start causing severe social strain unless tackled .
It said annual report Indonesia last June unless economic growth revived , unemployment could reach termed `` unacceptable level .
'' Unemployment officially put 4.8 pct end last year , considered underemployed number around 35 pct .
What path take appears matter dispute within Suharto 's government , Western-trained technocrat advocating classic remedy supported international financial community .
But another group support protected economy , import substitution , U.S. Embassy report said .
The government devalued rupiah 31 pct dollar last September help export curb import , currently working series measure encourage foreign investment boost export outside oil sector .
The direction Suharto take could affect Indonesia's ability raise new loan future , Western banker say .
So far , despite three package economic measure past nine month , touched key monopoly linked business controlled either family business associate , diplomat banker say .
Diplomats investor looking action monopoly loss-making state sector sign Suharto serious tackling country 's problem .
REUTER & # 3 ; 