The easing rule governing overseas use yen caused explosion Euroyen bond activity failed turn yen truly international currency , bond manager trader said .
Although yen bond rank second dollar issue Eurobond market , foreigner interested keeping yen borrow one want yen bond Japanese , said .
This lack real yen demand freer Euroyen market undermining 1984 U.S. And Japanese accord internationalise yen , said .
The borrower want take advantage low Japanese interest rate need yen .
They arrange primarily Japanese bank exchange yen fund currency , mainly dollar , bond manager said .
More 85 pct Euroyen bond issue swap driven , added .
`` The borrower n't care currency use .
They attractive money , '' one bond trader said .
Issues doubled 150 1986 previous year , boosting Euroyen offering nine pct total Eurobond market , Koichi Kimura , managing director Daiwa Securities Co Ltd , said recently .
Traders said activity stem battle among Japanese foreign security company bank prestige placing larger share issue .
Many even resort `` harakiri '' swap , unprofitable pricing .
But fever continues number offering could double 1987 , said Naoki Yokoyama , manager Nikko Securities Co Ltd 's international capital market operation .
The Euroyen bond , issued , mostly picked Japanese trust bank , one trader said .
After 90 day waiting period bond flow back Japan investor appetite strong , added .
Foreign investor reluctant invest yen attractive yield offered dollar currency investment , trader said .
`` Even aggressive foreign investor stopped investing ( yen ) , '' said Masaki Shimazu , manager Daiwa 's bond department .
While foreigner interested secondary market , Japanese commercial bank , regional bank , life insurer financial institution eager buy bond await flow back Japan since offer little currency risk , trader said .
The Finance Ministry last April shortened waiting period issue could flow back Japan 90 day 180 .
A ministry official said verified sampling reflow fairly small .
`` We believe Euroyen bond remain mainly Euroyen market , '' said .
One trader said although demand Japanese investor heavy , may prove short-term .
He said many investor plan sell bond Japanese U.S. Interest rate decline .
To encourage international use yen , ministry considering allowing issue Euroyen commercial paper , official said , adding studying demand potential borrower .
Securities company source believe ministry permit non-residents issue Euroyen commercial paper within next month .
But expect continue ban domestic participation market time come .
Japanese bank object short-term paper market see encroaching business territory .
Traders said Euroyen commercial paper could spur demand overseas yen allowing opportunity shift shorter-term security need .
`` Commercial paper might encourage fewer swap , '' one bond manager said .
If financial instrument available , might trade yen , added .
Euroyen bond must carry five-year maturity , though recent issue callable three year work shorter maturity , trader said .
The ministry expected allow four-year Euroyen bond maturity within month .
One yen bond manager said Japanese financial authority giving lot control liberalising rule governing international transaction yen .
But freer use yen could encourage trade settlement Japanese currency , said .
`` If exporter importer raise fund yen , willing agree using Japanese yen settlement currency , '' added .
The Finance Ministry official said government must constantly consider way improve market benefit borrower investor .
`` No major market keep status without change , '' said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 