The sharp decline soybean crush ratio seen last week , accelerating recent day , pushed margin cost production soybean processing plant prompted many cut output soybean meal oil .
The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate reported National Soybean Processors Association afternoon 21.78 mln bushel , 22 mln bushel plus rate seen past two month crush margin surged best level seen year .
Active soymeal export loading Gulf pushed soybean future premium higher , prompting pick-up weekly crush number .
However , much export demand seems met , foreign meal user waiting expected surge shipment new crop South American soymeal next month .
U.S. processor finding domestic livestock feed demand light time year due milder normal winter , steadily dropped offering price attempt find buying interest , soyproduct dealer said .
Soybean meal future also steadily declined recent week , setting new contract low 139.70 dlrs per ton nearby March contract today .
`` Many speculator bought March soymeal sold May , looking delivery ( first notice day tomorrow , would cause March gain deferreds ) , '' one CBT crush trader said .
`` But 've bailing week March acting like lot delivered , tomorrow , later month , '' added .
As result weakness soymeal , March crush ratio ( The value soyproducts le cost soybean ) fell mid 30 earlier month 22.6 cent per bushel today , dropping five cent last two day .
The May crush ended today 17 cent , processor want lock ratio unprofitable level , trader said .
Hopefully , start cut back production get supply line demand , added .
With future , processor finding must bid premium cash soybean , reducing crush margin .
A central Illinois processor making 30 cent every bushel soybean crushed current price , sharply level seen week ago average cost production , cash dealer said .
Most soybean processing plant still operation , little talk taking temporary down-time , far .
But processor start halting production next week continue face unprofitable margin , added .
Reuter & # 3 ; 