Poland say U.S. Sanctions cost economy 15 billion dlrs made clear want Washington take lead repairing damage lifting remaining restriction two week ago .
Polish official unable provide precise breakdown figure , saying take account number hypothetical loss .
Some `` sophisticated convert financial term , '' one banking source said .
But Western economic expert say effect sanction impossible calculate .
They say blurred poor performance Poland's economy , dismiss 15 billion dlr figure illusory .
`` Sanctions provided useful excuse under- achieving .
They bad effect , yes , contributed largely internal , economic problem , '' one said .
The U.S .
Imposed measure withdrew Most Favoured Nation ( MFN ) trading status Poland 1982 retaliation suppression Solidarity free trade union martial law .
The estimated cost Polish economy originally devised several year ago Institute National Economy , offshoot central planning commission .
According one Western envoy , expert Polish economic affair , extrapolated 1979 information growth trend trade United States , well increase credit Western commercial government lender .
But calculation based time trade booming credit still flowed freely , said , dismissing estimate `` theoretical projection based high point , real scientific evaluation .
'' A foreign trade ministry official said Polish export U.S .
In late 1970s averaged around 400 mln dlrs annually fallen half since sanction imposed .
Imports suffered , slumping around 800 mln dlrs 200 mln , credit ran .
Poland dwindling trade surplus West .
Last year one billion dlrs targeted 1.6 billion , official figure show .
Acknowledging sanction lost Poland important U.S. Markets -- including agricultural equipment , textile , chemical foodstuff -- Western economist say credit dried economic political reason .
`` Poland accusing West letting economic relation deteriorate political reason , '' said one expert .
`` It 's illusion based misunderstanding Western economy .
'' `` There 's limit much go giving someone hope repaying , '' another said , adding Poland benefited global phenomenon easy credit 1970s longer today 's reality .
Describing 15 billion dlr assessment `` nebulous , '' one diplomat said also included loss hypothetical order setback Polish research curbing scientific link exchange .
Western official say lifting sanction new MFN status little impact Poland , hard currency debt 33.5 billion dlrs lack mean modernise industry .
`` MFN n't really mean anything , Poland treated worse country .
It difficult regain access U.S. Market different force play , '' said one Western envoy .
He said Polish product competitive , quality low .
Trade war possible protectionist measure amongst U.S. , Japan Europe would also hamper Poland 's effort regain entry .
Deputy foreign trade minister Janusz Kaczurba recognised fact recently .
Kaczurba told official PAP news agency recently , `` Making lost position take long time uncommonly difficult , certain case impossible ... In period two three year possible increase level export 100 mln dlrs .
'' While Poland unlikely seek compensation , say `` moral right '' assistance U.S .
Which say imposed sanction illegally .
But Western economist said '' The argument U.S. Sanctions unilateral torpedoing Polish economy wo n't cut ice .
The Americans reply Poles acted immorally crushing Solidarity .
'' Nevertheless , Polish National Bank head Wladyslaw Baka , talk Washington last week International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) World Bank , made clear Poland looking lead United States .
He quoted PAP saying Poland would meet financial obligation United States , `` short time without cooperative stand part foreign economic partner .
'' He stressed U.S. `` particular opportunity play part cooperative policy Poland 's partner interested settlement Polish debt .
'' Putting sharply , one senior banking official blamed Washington obstructing talk World Bank , IMF Paris Club Western creditor government recent year said play positive role .
`` As major superpower United States influence international organisation , '' said , citing recent meeting aimed stabilising currency example extent Western nation prepared cooperate .
REUTER & # 3 ; 