The Hong Kong dollar fixed rate market shut afternoon 200 mln H.K .
Dlr certificate deposit issue Chinese state-owned Bank Communications Ltd Hong Kong branch suddenly surfaced , banker said .
Disgruntled dealer said market slowly road recovery bout sell-off began early February still fragile absorb new issue .
Brokers said new deal took surprise major player stopped making market existing issue .
The fixed rate market , consists mainly CDs tied swap asset repackaging , began fall month ago due indigestion 18 CD issue totalling 2.3 billion dlrs flooded market January .
Bankers said shake-up result participant pushing market fast January amid intense speculation Hong Kong dollar 's 7.80 peg rate U.S. Dollar would soon changed .
The speculation depressed local interest rate unleashed flood new issue .
But speculation faded early February interest rate climbed government remained adamant maintaining peg , thus triggering adjustment fixed rate capital market .
By late February market recovered considerably Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Morgan Guaranty Trust Co New York launched issue pushed market .
Since new issue nearly two week China Development Finance Co ( H.K .
) Ltd ( CDFC ) , unit Bank China , launched five-year deal 7.05 pct quarterly interest payment mid-afternoon today .
Brokers said market steady early morning began slip marginally late morning rumour new issue circulated .
When deal launched major player quickly suspended trading refused quote price issue , broker said .
`` We n't know market going , '' said European banker .
They said Bank Communications issue traded low 99.70 later pushed 99.90/95 , within 10 basis point fee , adding buying came mainly sister bank Bank China group .
An official one Chinese bank said deal launched effective yield 7.26 pct , line market time .
But European banker said pricing issue IN present market conditionS , `` timing right .
'' `` If bank patience would n't launch issue , market would right , '' another dealer said .
`` But reason overly pessimistic , '' said .
`` The effect issue market bad happened DKB Morgan deal .
'' Despite criticism banker said CDFC still managed recruit 10 underwriter though composition group yet finalised .
`` Any trader recommend bank joining deal , '' said dealer .
`` But consideration relationship .
'' He admitted bank joined co-manager .
A banker said saw reason market maker decided shut willing join new issue .
`` Perhaps jealous first time Chinese entity taken sole lead position Chinese issue , '' said .
Previously Chinese entity always acted co-lead manager , whether Chinese foreign issue .
REUTER & # 3 ; 