Bankers welcomed Bank Spain's decision raise reserve requirement bank saving bank , saying reflected socialist government's determination ease fight inflation despite painful social effect four year austerity .
The central bank last night raised requirement one percentage point 19 pct March 13 , saying excess liquidity threatened money supply inflation target .
Bankers said move represented change tactic Bank , relied raising interest rate choke money supply growth .
`` I think 's good measure , '' senior foreign banker said .
`` It 's faster way get job done using interest rate avoids unpleasant effect area economy .
'' `` It show political strong .
They know controlling inflation make industry competitive bring unemployment long run , '' added .
The head another foreign bank said month ago , Bank Spain dismissed suggestion rise reserve requirement , preferring pursue strategy raising interest rate .
But banker said high real interest rate offer -- around eight pct overnight fund -- attracting money abroad , strengthening peseta making Spanish export le competitive .
The government say industry 's competitiveness also hit hard inflation .
At 8.3 pct last year , rate way Spain 's major trading partner European Community , joined year ago .
To help meet year 's target five pct , insisting pay rise stay level , setting stage clash trade union , say made enough sacrifice .
Demonstrations worker , student farmer , whose demand essentially involve government spending , become almost daily occurrence .
But Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez insists state much .
Bankers said reserve requirement increase could impact commercial lending rate hit money market hard .
The Bank Spain , yesterday raised key overnight call money rate 13.5 pct , left unchanged today 's auction .
The rate increased nine time since start year , 12 pct .
Bankers said commercial lending rate set rise case end six pct maximium interest rate bank offer time deposit six month .
The measure take effect tomorrow , following publication decree today 's official gazette .
Bankers say liberalisation increase cost fund , inevitably , push lending rate higher .
A companion measure , reducing proportion fund bank must invest specific area , also take effect tomorrow .
Officials said cut approved last month aimed partly compensating bank higher interest rate .
REUTER & # 3 ; 