Congressional ire rising multinational development bank make loan help country produce good direct competition beleagured American farmer miner .
With record trade deficit 169 billion dlrs last year farm economy doldrums , Congress pressing hold back U.S. fund World Bank development bank money used subsidize production produce good already oversupply around world .
`` American tax dollar used subsidize foreign agriculture mineral production often direct competition producer , '' Sen. Don Nickles , Oklahoma Republican , said letter fellow senator seeking support legislation limit loan .
Nickles Sen. Steven Symms , conservative Republican Idaho , introduced legislation would strictly limit U.S. funding multinational development bank make loan help developing country produce surplus commodity mineral .
Current law requires United States vote loan carry reprisal pas anyway .
Treasury Secretary James Baker 's assurance U.S. policy oppose loan satisfy concern raised two Senate committee hearing last week .
Baker told Senate Appropriations subcommittee Foreign Operations , `` policy matter , oppose loan production commodity oversupply .
'' The senator cited 350 mln dlr World Bank loan made Argentina last year help increase agricultural export one billion dlrs year 1989 .
Nickles , Symms others also cited loan 1985 World Bank loan Hungary expand livestock export 500 mln dlrs lent Thailand 1981 1985 low interest rate agriculture .
Baker said Argentine loan `` really one point criticize .
'' Last year Republican-controlled Senate voted three time objection administration cut U.S. funding development bank amount loan .
Even favorable vote 65 15 , restriction weakened final version .
Only provision directing U.S. official vote disapproval enacted law .
This year 's proposal , called Foreign Agricultural Investment Reform ( FAIR ) Act would require U.S. vote loan designed increase production surplus commodity mineral .
Also , recipient country would prove production , marketing export commodity could handled without government subsidy .
If loan approved U.S. objection , United States would increase replenish fund institution agrees stop making loan .
Objections loan often raised conservative Republicans traditionally opposed U.S. funding international development bank .
But loss many job foreign competition raised similar concern among moderate senator .
Democratic senator Barbara Mikulski Maryland told Baker Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing , `` Many say bank financing competition American job .
'' She recommended United States use participation debt forgiveness developing country loan wedge open market U.S. good .
The administration opposes legislation would tie hand vote loan .
It argues might instance country needed money continue move toward U.S. policy area .
Baker said United States would continue use leverage bank require foreign trade liberalization measure , often form elimination subsidy .
Reuter & # 3 ; 