Brazil set target coffee export following week 's breakdown International Coffee Organization talk export quota , President Brazilian Coffee Institute , IBC , Jorio Dauster said .
He told press conference Brazil reconsider export plan 15.5 mln bag export figure proposed earlier longer taken country 's export target ICO-member country .
The 15.5 mln bag offer made assumption agreement would bring stability world market , added .
It gesture ease negotiation , lack agreement leaf longer valid export could 15.5 mln bag , said .
Dauster said would talk producer , exporter market analyst taking decision export policy , future policy would flexible adjusted market condition .
`` We take short-term decision might cause market panic , '' Dauster added .
He said would policy show Brazil coffee sell could without ICO agreement .
`` Brazil coffee ( sell ) want show need ICO agreement crutch , '' Dauster said .
Commenting breakdown talk , Dauster said consumer proposal would implied reduction one two mln bag Brazil 's export quota .
`` It proposal would lead substantial loss Brazil would difficult country recover , '' said .
The consumer proposal base quota six-year moving average exportable production surplus would lead overproduction country boosted output win higher quota , said .
Dauster rejected report said Brazil 's inflexibility cause breakdown talk , noting stance backing 85 pct producing country .
Close link would continue producer , particularly Colombia , Mexico Francophone African country , Dauster said joint marketing action envisaged present .
He also said Brazil currently plan return system roaster buying contract , although `` hypothesis abandoned .
'' Dauster said yet decided registration May shipment coffee opened .
He declined comment whether IBC adopt policy opening registration six month advance , exporter suggested .
He noted export registration first four month year totalled around 5.5 mln bag , half 9.9 mln exported 1986 drought reduced crop 11.2 mln 12 mln bag .
He said , although heard forecast 30 mln bag coming crop , IBC would make estimate late April .
Reuter & # 3 ; 