Personal taxation emerged major economic issue Finnish general election later month , Conservative gain could mark shift towards indirect taxation accelerate move towards market-oriented banking practice , economist say .
Opinion poll indicate Conservative Party , Finland's second largest , may gain enough clout election join coalition government still likely dominated Social Democrats Prime Minister Kalevi Sorsa .
But economist point Conservative economic policy differ slightly government ' , trade Soviet Union affected .
Helsinki banker said new government , including Conservatives first time 20 year , could bring shift direct indirect taxation .
The present coalition Social democrat Centrists embarked tax reform programme cut marginal taxation , 75 pct highest income scale .
The opposition also called reform , differ regain lost state revenue .
One Conservative favoured possibility abolishing tax exemption interest bank deposit government bond .
Hannu Halttunen , Helsinki bank Kansallis-Osake-Pankki ( KOP ) , told Reuters `` We want free setting interest rate creating different deposit suit individual investor .
If tax interest introduced , prefer system taxation real interest gain .
'' Under present law , bank customer exempted tax interest bank jointly set interest rate .
Bankers said encouraged cartel-style banking hindering tougher inter-bank competition .
A London-based Nordic banking expert said liberalisation strong word use Finnish context , Conservative presence could dislodge traditional practice .
`` It would probably result new practice seen elsewhere year growing rather quickly Finland , '' said , reference money market instrument .
All party , especially Conservatives , careful avoid making Finnish-Soviet trade election issue .
Moscow Finland 's largest trading partner .
Until year ago Conservative Party seen anti-communist , moderated stance , political analyst say .
Trade Helsinki Moscow based barter system , balanced long-term accord .
In January two country signed 1987 agreement worth 30 billion markka , trade past two year declining due fall price crude oil , account 80 pct Finnish import Soviet Union .
The banker said taxation become major economic theme campaign issue .
Inflation 3.4 pct 1986 , compared 5.9 pct 1985 , unemployment increased slightly 6.1 pct workforce 1985 last year 's level 6.7 pct .
The Social democrat 1986 doubled country 's foreign trade surplus compared 1985 , 2.50 billion markka 5.04 billion markka .
Opinion poll say Sorsa 's Social Democrats remain largest party 200-seat Parliament , 26 pct vote .
They currently hold 57 seat .
The Centre Party , major coalition partner , also expected hold 37 seat .
But increased Conservative support decline Communists could make force Sorsa allow Conservatives government .
They currently hold 44 seat .
REUTER & # 3 ; 