Japanese life insurer , trust bank corporation , largely responsible vitalising U.S .
Bond market recent year , eyeing stockmarkets U.S. , Britain , France Hong Kong , fund manager said .
After concentrating U.S. Treasury bond year , Japanese institution see risk relying much similar type investment , said .
Japan 's net buying overseas stockmarkets year may double triple 15-20 billion dlrs seven billion 1986 , Shigeki Matsumoto Nikko Securities Co Ltd , said .
Matsumoto , manages Nikko 's investment research strategy , said evidence Japanese investor began poking around foreign stockmarkets around July last year , made firm commitment December net purchase suddenly grew 1.5 billion dlrs around 500 mln previous five month .
Net buying 1985 totalled 995 mln dlrs , added .
This sudden penchent overseas stock likely draw widest smile Wall Street 70 80 pct fund invested U.S. Markets , Matsumoto said .
`` The trend head toward U.S. Market , first size next successful last couple year , '' said Eugene Atkinson , managing director Goldman Sachs International Corp. Wall Street 's massive turnover offer good liquidity , enabling institution easily move large volume money share minimum risk , added .
However , see holding U.S. Treasuries dwindling .
They remain Japanese mainstay , fund manager said .
Institutions , particularly life insurance company concentrate income rather capital gain cover payouts policy holder , unlikely sell U.S. Treasuries , put le money , said Shinichi Kobuse , manager Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd 's international fixed income activity .
There selling U.S. Bonds short-term investor , selling unlikely amount significant chunk Japanese bond holding liquidity U.S .
Bond market remains attractive , added .
Kobuse said investment manager bullish U.S. Equity market despite prediction economist U.S. Economy remain sluggish next couple month .
Interest Wall Street spurred recent report significant growth earnings major U.S .
Corporations , added .
Yutaka Hashimoto general manager Nippon Life Insurance Co told economic conference insurance company , responsible 26 pct Japanese fund foreign security , hold lopsided proportion U.S. Treasuries intend diversify instrument currency .
Insurance company put dominant portion fund U.S. , But invest Britain , West Germany , France country , Hashimoto said .
Lower interest rate worldwide make return stock relatively high comparison bond light strength yen , growth stock value expected offset currency risk , added .
One trust bank official said bank aim 10 pct annual return overseas investment recent decline U.S. 30-year bond yield caused rethink pension fund investment stategies .
The bank looking U.S. Equities European bond , said .
Japanese investment British equity already turned active pace likely increase , said Andrew Sheaf , general manager international equity activity County Securities Japan .
`` Last week busiest week , '' said .
Investments spurred growth profit British company recent deregulation government controlled firm , fund manager said .
Deregulation France also attracting Japanese interest , stock investment inhibited worry French franc , said .
Investments Hong Kong mostly short-term speculative due uncertainty colony 's long-term political stability , added .
Japanese investor cautious West Germany , particularly German firm , like Japanese counterpart , concerned recent dollar fall .
Australia also pose risk due currency value , added .
REUTER & # 3 ; 