The Bank England fought money bond market pressure pre-Budget interest rate cut , leaving pound take strain rise trade-weighted index six-month high .
It closed best level since September 12 , 71.4 pct 1975 value index , foreign investor continued buy currency offer high relative return possibility short-term capital gain , dealer said .
Meanwhile , opinion divided whether Bank stop cut Budget Day , March 17 , want .
The Bank 's latest strong signal market want rate stay steady moment came midafternoon , lent discount house penal rate 11-3/4 pct relieve money market shortage .
`` They 're really making discount house suffer , '' said Stephen Lewis , economist brokerage house Phillips Drew .
`` Eleven three-quarters pct way money market rate .
'' This money market signal apparently accompanied sterling sale foreign exchange , talk inhibited strong rise yesterday Tuesday , buyer came strongly pound .
The pound surged high 1.5798/808 dlrs London close , previous finish 1.5650/60 , 2.8900/60 mark , 2.8720/50 .
`` If pressure keep ... There possibility rate could drop Budget , '' said Jeremy Hale , economist finance house Goldman Sachs International Corp .
Some gilt trader forecasting half-point cut base rate current 11 pct early tomorrow .
However , analyst said Bank England need convinced present rise fundamental re-rating rather result short-term speculative gain .
There valid reason Bank cautious , said Peter Fellner , U.K .
Economist broker James Capel Co. Markets become highly optimistic chance Conservative Party victory early general election , disappointment Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher decides hold back could lead decline pound setback bond , Fellner said .
An election could delayed mid-1988 , forecast say year .
Others note pound could yet prove vulnerable oil price loss change fortune dollar .
However , analyst agree Bank largely trying set timing cut holding one altogether .
The authority traditionally prefer single sustainable rate move , one way , half point .
Some add Bank influenced sign least proportion latest bout sterling buying long-term capital coming London market , notably Japan .
They argue pound perceived safer bet dollar , given latter recent sharp fall current political upheaval Washington .
The Bank may want see another point trade-weighted index Budget , argued Lewis .
`` But sterling firm enough satisfy even Bank England , '' added .
The Bank declined comment reason resisting pressure rate move budget , banking source said authority see recent rise sterling marking foreign exchange trader .
Meanwhile , analyst noted market ignored potentially harmful news trade front , today 's figure showing current account deficit 1986 1.1 billion stg .
This previous estimate current account deficit compare surplus 2.9 billion stg 1985 .
Fellner said normal condition would given bond currency market pause , bullish worry fundamental .
The guessing game timing cut clearing bank divided well market .
Privately , bank official forecast Bank hold least week , least one bank say rise possible tomorrow .
If move come March 17 , forecast half-point cut , another half full point Budget day .
REUTER & # 3 ; 