Deputy Foreign Trade Minister Janusz Kaczurba told Reuters Poland would diverge traditional Communist bloc centrally-planned economic policy wanted bring economic renewal compete world market .
Stressing commitment series reform recently introduced streamline economy boost export-oriented industry , also called expansion role private sector .
Asked whether policy government advocating represent departure strictly controlled economic model within Soviet bloc , said interview Reuters `` I n't see alternative try proceed along line economic reasoning .
'' He referred specifically bankruptcy , said would `` logical outcome stringent economic policy , '' state stopped propping enterprise guarantee job , regardless inefficient .
He added , `` We follow policy creating system whereby manager really responsible overall economic effect enterprise .
This done one way , reduction subsidy .
'' But also noted need curtail bureaucracy branch ministry , allow domestic price reflect world market , make foreign exchange rate realistic , provide incentive export-oriented industry encourage private business .
Kaczurba talking Reuters effect economy U.S. Sanctions imposed 1982 response suppression Solidarity trade union martial law .
He acknowledged Poland 's economic decline would add problem trying regain market support Western creditor even Washington lifted remaining restriction restored Most Favoured Nation trading status last month .
Western official say Polish good competitive better quality face trade war protectionism amongst U.S. , Japanese European competitor .
Reaffirming government 's view key solving problem meeting payment 33.5 billion dlr foreign debt lay increasing hard currency export , Kaczura said private enterprise could play greater role .
`` I think could 20,000 small private enterprise active export-oriented business operator successfully convinced policy towards ( private ) sector stabilised , '' said .
Poland already developed private sector East European country .
Among economic reform already way , Kaczurba listed easier access hard currency profit , tax incentive , access investment credit two devaluation zloty increase competitivity price .
He said policy welcomed World Bank International Monetary Fund , Poland hoping gain new credit , Poles caught `` vicious circle .
'' Creditors wanted proof policy directed towards improving export , order fulfil expectation Poland first needed fresh input , said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 