Hughes Tool Co Chairman W.A .
Kistler said counter proposal merge Baker International Corp still consideration merger best interest company .
`` Our hope come mutual agreement good company , '' Kistler said proposed merger would result 1.2 billion dlr oil field service company .
`` We 're working hard merger .
'' Hughes ' board today adjourned shareholder meeting vote proposed merger rescheduled March 11 give Baker time consider counter proposal .
The Hughes board , previously expressed concern U.S. Department Justice consent decree would require Baker sell drilling bit operation submersible pump business , met yesterday threatened terminate proposed merger .
The Hughes board made counter proposal two company first find acceptable buyer business signing decree .
The director Baker immediately receiving counter proposal filed law suit Texas Texas state court force Hughes complete merger .
`` The uncertainty price condition might imposed Department Justice make u nervous outcome might , '' Kistler said , explaining Hughes made counter proposal .
`` We need additional time understand Baker accept proposal .
'' Kistler also said law suit filed Baker `` factor '' board 's decision keep merger proposal table .
He declined comment allegation lawsuit .
Kistler said Hughes would willing consider compromise counter proposal , declined specific .
The Justice Department January said would block Hughes Baker merger anti-trust ground unless company agreed sign consent decree would provide sale asset merger took place .
The Hughes board said would sign decree `` unreasonable .
'' Hughes said Baker instead complete sale disputed asset merger finalized given government approval .
Under decree , Baker unable find acceptable buyer within specified period time decree approved , federal trustee would become responsible finding buyer .
Kistler said term , trustee could take 10 year complete sale .
He also expressed concern combined company might required government 's condition license technology purchaser asset .
Baker said last night statement required asset sold would reduce revenue 65 mln dlrs , representing three pct revenue combined company .
Reuter & # 3 ; 