Talks possibility reintroducing global coffee export quota extended today , spark flying yesterday dissident group exporter included key negotiating forum .
The special meeting International Coffee Organization ( ICO ) council called find way stop prolonged slide coffee price .
However , delegate said solution question implement quota yet sight .
World coffee export quota -- major device used regulate coffee price International Coffee Agreement -- suspended year ago price soared reaction drought cut Brazil '' output nearly two third .
Brazil world '' largest coffee producer exporter .
Producers consumer facing question quota calculated future quota distribution scheme , delegate said .
Tempers flared late Saturday minority group eight producing country represented contact group five producer five consumer delegate plus alternate set facilitate debate .
The big producer `` want ball court '' fair , '' minority producer spokesman Luis Escalante Costa Rica said .
The majority producer group proposed resuming quota April 1 , using previous ad hoc method carving quota share , promise try negotiate basic quota September 30 , delegate said .
Their plan would perpetuate status quo , allowing Brazil retain almost current 30 pct share export market , Colombia 17 pct , Ivory Coast seven pct Indonesia six pct , rest divided among smaller exporter .
But consuming country dissident producer group tabled separate proposal requiring quota determined availability , using formula incorporating exportable production stock statistic .
Their proposal would give Brazil smaller quota share Colombia Indonesia larger share , bring new quota distribution scheme effect rather later .
Brazil far unwilling accept proposal would reduce quota share , delegate said .
Delegates would speculate prospect agreement quota package .
`` Anything possible phase , '' even adjournment meeting March April , one said .
If ICO agree quota , price coffee supermarket shelf likely change sinnificantly result , industry source said .
Retail coffee price past year remained steady even though coffee market price tumbled , upswing probably passed onto consumer either , said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 