Indonesia appears nearing political crossroad measure deregulate protected economy , U.S. Embassy say new report .
To counter falling oil revenue , government launched series measure past nine month boost export outside oil sector attract new investment .
Indonesia , Asian member OPEC leading primary commodity producer , severely hit last year '' fall world oil price , forced devalue currency 31 pct September .
But U.S. Embassy report say President Suharto '' government appears divided direction lead economy .
`` ( It ) appears nearing crossroad regard deregulation , pertains investment import , '' report say .
It primarily ass Indonesia '' agricultural sector , also review country '' general economic performance .
It say many government official adviser recommending relaxation , `` equally strong pressure exerted halt move .
'' `` This group strongly favour import substitution economy , '' report say .
Indonesia '' economic change welcomed World Bank international banker step right direction , though say crucial area economy like plastic steel remain highly protected , virtual monopoly .
Three set measure announced since last May , broadened area foreign investment , reduced trade restriction liberalised import .
The report say Indonesia '' economic growth calendar 1986 probably zero , economy may even contracted bit .
`` This lowest rate growth since mid-1960s , '' report note .
Indonesia , largest country South-East Asia population 168 million , facing general election April .
But report hold little hope swift improvement economic outlook .
`` For 1987 early indication point slightly positive growth rate exceeding one pct .
Economic activity continues suffer due sharp fall export earnings petroleum industry .
'' `` Growth non-oil sector low weak domestic demand coupled excessive plant capacity , real decline construction trade , reduced level growth agriculture , '' report state .
Bankers say continuation present economic reform crucial government get international lending need .
A new World Bank loan 300 mln dlrs last month balance payment support given partly help government maintain momentum reform , Bank said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 