Carl Icahn 's bold takeover bid USAir Group & lt ; U > clouded fate Piedmont Aviation Inc , courted USAir .
Yesterday , Icahn 's Transworld Airlines Inc & lt ; TWA > made 1.4 billion dlr offer USAir Group .
The move complicated USAir takeover offer Piedmont , believed close accepting bid .
Today , USAir rejected Icahn 's 52 dlr per share offer said bid last-minute effort interfere takeover Piedmont .
Icahn unavailable comment .
Piedmont fell one 68-5/8 volume 963,000 .
TWA 3/8 31-1/2 .
USAir fell 1-3/8 47-3/4 doubt spread would taken .
Analysts market source view TWA bid attempt either trigger counter offer USAir attract suitor might want airline merged .
`` The next move either Icahn start tender offer Piedmont USAir announce deal , '' speculated one arbitrager .
Some arbitrager said risk current price Piedmont since clear USAir 's bid succeed .
Piedmont 's largest shareholder suitor , Norfolk Southern Corp & lt ; NSC > offered 65 dlrs per share company .
USAir offered 71 dlrs cash per share half Piedmont stock , 73 dlrs per share stock balance .
Some arbitrager , however , believe depressed price Piedmont offer buying opportunity since airline destined acquired someone .
USAir , said , least likely bought .
Icahn , long talked consolidation airline industry , also offered USAir alternative three-way airline combination , including TWA Piedmont .
But Wall Street given little credibility Icahn's offer , lacked financing riddled contingency .
Still , succeeded holding merger two airline - analyst said would fit well TWA .
`` You ca n't discount , '' said one arbitrager .
Analysts , however , said Icahn would prove serious following threat making new offer .
In making offer USAir , Icahn threatened go directly shareholder 51 pct stock lower price USAir rejected offer .
`` It 's clear Icahn want sell 's bluffing , '' said one arbitrager .
Analysts said 52 dlr per share offer underpriced six dlrs per share .
Some analyst believe Icahn 's proposed three-way airline combination might face insurmountable regulatory hurdle , others believe could cleared company acquired separately .
`` TWA would surviving company deal work , '' said one analyst .
Analysts said merger would costly complicated .
TWA best cost structure , since Icahn succeeded winning concession union .
In order carrier come TWA 's wage scale merger , TWA would surviving entity , analyst said .
Such move necessarily free Icahn TWA , said .
They said showed skill reducing Ozark Airlines' cost merged TWA last year , might necessary ingredient merger work .
However , analyst speculated management Piedmont USAir would tolerate Icahn head new company .
They said USAir acquisition TWA might way exit company USAir 's airline merged TWA .
Reuter & # 3 ; 