Opposition politician , businessmen newspaper criticised India '' newly unveiled 1987/88 budget large projected deficit around 57 billion rupee .
They said budget failed provide incentive economic growth merely tinkered tax reform .
But politician prepared criticise sharp rise defence expenditure Hindu-majority nation playing fear aggression Moslem Pakistan proved vote winner .
The Indian Express , country '' biggest selling paper , said : `` The defence cow never holier .
'' The Sunday Mail newspaper branded budget `` shamelessly political .
'' It said front page commentary `` budget bad growth , bad price , bad stock market neutral respect everything else .
'' Businessmen polled Reuters said budget done little .
Gandhi announced small increase poverty alleviation education outlay ordered hold-down current expenditure attempt rein budget deficit .
He told ministry curb spending promised review money-losing public sector industry .
Gandhi lowered import tariff computer part otherwise little extended economic liberalisation policy launched two year ago .
Reaction Bombay , India '' business capital , generally unfavourable .
Businessmen economist said budget proposal closing 1987/88 budget deficit .
It also failed boost industrial investment productivity needed lift real economic growth five pct year envisaged 1985-90 development plan .
Nalin Vissanji , President Indian Merchants Chambers Commerce said budget gave incentive capital market fulfilled government pledge remove surtax corporate income .
Shares The Bombay Stock Exchange , India '' biggest , fell post-budget session yesterday broker welcomed Gandhi '' proposal set regulatory board security industry .
The exchange shaken last year several scandal trading suspended several time .
Brokers said trading volume may increase change capital gain tax stock sale .
Stockholders sell share one year instead three year without incurring capital gain tax .
Stock Exchange President Ramdas Dalal said yesterday fall share price budget came profit taken expected market firm day come .
REUTER & # 3 ; 