A one billion dlr lawsuit pushed Hughes Tool Co about-face rejection proposed merger Baker International Corp & lt ; BKO > , Wall Street analyst said .
Last night , Hughes said planned merger Baker .
Baker filed suit seeking punitive damage Hughes calling merger .
At midday today Hughes said still interested merger .
The analyst also said Hughes may worried trouble could make takeover candidate .
There speculation today Harold Simmons , Dallas investor , might try acquire Hughes , Simmons told Reuters interested .
Simmons said intends file 13-D Securities Exchange Monday reporting stake five pct publicly traded company .
He declined identify target rule Hughes .
One analyst said another factor latest Hughes turnabout Borg-Warner Corp & lt ; BOR > , owns 18.5 pct Hughes .
Borg-Warner ex-chairman J.F .
Bere , serf Hughes board , believed favor merger Baker .
Despite Hughes statement interested merger , Baker 's response merger still possibile , analyst said one could certain situation going .
`` I think merger going , '' said Phil Pace , analyst Kidder , Peabody Co .
He said merger `` lost lot appeal '' U.S. Department Justice required Baker sell Reed Tool Co operation .
Although Reed operation relatively small view total size combined Baker-Hughes , Pace said `` 30 40 pct cost saving tied .
'' `` They ( Hughes ) obviously concerned lawsuit , '' said James Crandell , analyst Salomon Brothers Inc. '' Apparently willing continue discussion whether alter position , I n't know .
`` It 's getting little confusing , '' said James Carroll , analyst PaineWebber Group Inc .
He said argument cited Hughes yesterday merger `` tend weak .
'' Hughes said yesterday condition merger wanted Reed Tool business sold prior April 22 , projected merger date .
A government decree allowed longer period time .
Hughes contended better formally combine company status Reed already settled .
Baker apparently see reason speed sale .
Carroll said Baker previously estimated 110 130 mln dlrs saving company combined without selling Reed .
But said Baker think 75 85 mln dlrs saved Hughes see saving 50 60 mln dlrs .
Carroll also noted since merger accord first signed `` outlook industry improved materially .
'' Hughes may simply feel pressure oil service industry lifting .
Reuter & # 3 ; 