Paradyne Corp said pleaded guilty criminal charge conspiracy defraud Social Security Administration agreed pay 1.2 mln dlrs fine cost U.S. Government .
The company also reached agreement principle 8.1 mln dlr settlement class action law suit .
About 2.9 mln dlrs class action settlement provided Paradyne 's insurance carrier .
The settlement contingent court approval notice class member , said .
The criminal case settlement dismisses charge including bribery false statement , except conspiracy Paradyne pleaded guilty .
The criminal settlement includes lifting government 's suspension , dismissal federal civil false claim suit charge individual .
Of 2.9 mln dlrs insurance carrier provide civil settlement , 750,000 dlrs go settle derivative lawsuit .
For year ended December 31 , Paradyne reported net loss 38.5 mln dlrs .
The year-end result include 8.0 mln dlrs provision future legal settlement cost cover civil criminal settlement announced today .
Paradyne also said named Jerry Kendall president chief executive officer , succeeding Robert Wiggins resigned chairman chief executive officer part settlement indictment .
Kendall formerly served executive vice president chief operating officer .
The company also said due sluggish marketplace , expect profitable first quarter optimistic outlook year .
For first quarter 1986 , company reported net income 875,000 dlrs sale 66.0 mln dlrs .
Wiggins among five Paradyine executive charged along three former officer 1985 federal indictment stemming 115 mln contract awarded Paradyne 1981 build computer network Social Security Administration .
The men accused conspiring bribe government official defaud Social Security Administration .
Wiggins defendant also charged providing false testimony obstructing justice Securities Exchange Commission investigation .
Under settlement announced today , federal prosecutor agreed defer charge Wiggins three defendant one-year pretrial agreement .
The charge would dropped defendant successfully complete probation period .
Details requirement agreement immediately available .
Reuter & # 3 ; 