In search way cut spending U.S. farm program , policymakers adviser citing trading option contract alternative federal income price support .
Critics costly federal farm program maintain government could get guaranteeing minimum support price farmer systematically used option contract protect vacillating market price .
`` With agricultural option available , le need government price support program provide price stability farmer , '' Heritage Foundation , conservative think tank , said recent position paper .
`` Washington longer need restrict level variability commodity market price .
Farmers others agribusiness achieve benefit price stability trading option market , '' paper , written Clemson University professor Kandice Kahl , said .
Critics farm program contend option offer benefit price support program without entailing cost taxpayer .
Kahl 's paper urged farmer buy `` put '' option order obtain right sell particular price private seller option contract .
`` This give farmer guaranteed price , still allows profit higher market price , available , foregoing option , '' Kahl said .
Interest promoting understanding option trading among farmer also stirred Congress proposed change agricultural policy would effect exposing participant federal farm program fluctuation income subsidy .
The proposal -- supported Reagan administration cross-section lawmaker -- would allow farmer receive least 92 pct income subsidy regardless much planted .
Under current law , farmer enrolled federal price stabilization program receive income subsidy , deficiency payment , equal difference set target price higher support price market price .
The so-called decoupling plan , `` 0/92 '' , would aim curtail surplus production eliminating requirement farmer plant order receive deficiency payment .
Critics `` 0/92 '' plan contend scheme succeeded curbing surplus output , market price would rise deficiency payment fall -- leaving farmer chose plant shrunken income subsidy crop sell .
Sen. Rudy Boschwitz ( R-Minn. ) , forefront effort decouple income support acreage planting , advocate replacing variable deficiency payment fixed gradually declining payment .
But many farm state lawmaker turned idea offering fixed subsidy farmer plant nothing .
Some congressional staff member said intrigued notion federal government subsidize purchase `` call '' option help farmer hedge income risk .
By buying call option , farmer would obtain right buy commodity particular price .
If market price rose option price , farmer could exercise option sell commodity spot market , making reduction deficiency payment .
An aide Boschwitz said senator might offer legislation linking option decoupling , might await result pilot project future option trading mandated 1985 farm bill .
The bill required USDA , association Commodity Futures Trading Commission , conduct pilot program least 40 county produce major program crop .
The program , recently launched , designed encourage producer participate future option market ensure producer ' net return would fall county loan level crop question .
Reuter & # 3 ; 