U.S. crude oil price rose 18 dlrs barrel week industry analyst said price could rise another dollar inventory fall .
`` OPEC keeping production , cash market tight supply crude short transportation time major refining center , '' said Daniel McKinley , oil analyst Smith Barney , Harris Upham Co. `` That could send price 50 ct dollar higher , '' added .
The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate rose 18.15 dlrs barrel today , rise 1.50 dlrs week .
The rally oil price week came price fell February two dlrs high 18.25 dlrs barrel .
`` Oil trader pulling price assumption oil stock building OPEC producing well 15.8 mln bpd quota , assumption come question , '' McKinley said .
Yesterday International Energy Agency monthly report said oil stock OECD area , industrialized nation , drawn 1.3 mln bpd first quarter year .
IEA estimate draw oil stock first quarter year come largely oil company whose inventory level April one estimated 326 mln tonne , 74 day consumption .
Industry analyst also said estimate 3.5 mln bpd draw stock made Shell Chairman Peter Holmes yesterday fed speculation major company destocking .
Traders said destocking come result so-called buyer strike , kept refiner buying officially priced OPEC oil effort get organization offer discount official price .
`` This struggle company OPEC ultimate game chicken resolved relatively soon .
I would imagine middle month ( March ) , '' general trading manager international oil company told Reuters telephone interview .
For part OPEC moved win game cutting excess supply market reduction output , trader said .
A Reuter survey estimate OPEC output 14.7 mln bpd week .
Also , earthquake Ecuador yesterday led suspend oil export indefintiely force majeure shipment .
`` This reduce short-haul availability 250,000 bpd almost immediately longer suspension continues , larger draw stock company expecting , '' McKinley said .
International oil trader said short-haul crude , North Sea Brent , also scarce Asian refiner bought oil absorbing lot readily available Mideast crude earlier week .
If pattern continues oil company bid price oil purchase refinery , trading manager several company told Reuters .
But skeptic said wondered long OPEC retain unity buyer resistance continues .
Stephen Hanke , chief economist Friedburg Commodity Management , said OPEC production lower `` Saudi cut ( 3.1 mln bpd ) could spell trouble give member incentive exceed quota .
'' He added , `` The Saudis picking tab member produce quota , drain Saudis continue , forcing cut output maybe low 2.5 mln bpd support 18 dlrs average price , '' added .
There also sign OPEC crude sold spot market OPEC official price , trader said .
Oil trader said Nigerian Brass River sold delivery U.S. Gulf price related North Sea brent , traded week 17.60 dlrs , far official price 18.92 dlrs similar quality Bonny Light .
Iranian oil also surfacing U.S. Gulf Far East reported discount 17.50 dlrs official price .
`` There lot oil priced government-to-government deal , official price probably resold , '' one international trader said .
Reuter & # 3 ; 