American Telephone Telegraph Co's proposal deregulate long distance phone service unlikely produce radical change phone rate , help company 's profit , analyst said .
`` Deregulation mean pricing discount large volume user , status quo residential user , '' said PaineWebber Group analyst Jack Grubman .
But proposal scrap pricing formula constrained company 's profit long distance business , leading higher profit margin , analyst said .
ATT long pushed deregulation long-distance business , profit limited regulated rate-of-return company 's investment .
The rate cut last year 12.20 12.75 pct .
Earlier today company proposed Federal Communications Commission scrap formula , cut amount time needed approve rate proposal , leave competitor oppose filing .
MCI Communications Corp & lt ; MCIC > made similar filing yesterday , saying greater move would increase competition telephone business .
Analysts said proposal allow ATT cut cost long-distance unit , increase profit margin previously constrained rate return .
But many said expect proposal lead higher price industry , simply competition phone industry giant face .
`` You probably would n't see much price decline , '' said Gartner Group analyst Fritz Ringling .
`` But wouldn't see rise .
'' Grubman said proposal allow ATT selectively raise lower price , depending market .
`` It give ATT lot flexibility , '' said .
ATT face period comment number company able respond proposal FCC hearing .
It may face least one strong opponent , U.S. Sprint , long distance joint venture GTE Corp & lt ; GTE > United Telecommunications Inc & lt ; UT > .
`` We think Congress FCC establish reasonable rate return .
Someone establish , '' U.S. Sprint spokesman said .
But added company opposed greater competition .
It may also take time proposal go , process may altered various constituency affected move .
`` There 's much complexity , much inertia , much bureacracy , stricly speaking mechanism , wo n't happen fast , '' said analyst Victor Krueger Gartner Group .
Reuter & # 3 ; 