Dome Petroleum Ltd pressure one largest creditor , & lt ; Canadian Imperial Bank Commerce > , sell 42 pct stake & lt ; Encor Energy Corp Ltd > , energy industry analyst said .
Dome pledged 42.5 mln Encor share security part debt Commerce Bank , estimated last year 947 mln Canadian dlrs , bank want Dome sell stock pay debt , analyst said .
`` The Commerce slowly surely moving Encor direction might make saleable asset , '' said one analyst asked named .
Dome earlier said considering selling Encor Energy , reaffirmed company 's 23.3 pct interest Canadian gold producer Dome Mines Ltd & lt ; DM > sale `` right price .
'' Dome , negotiating plan restructure 6.10 billion dlrs debt , see Encor strategic investment intend sell , spokesman David Annesley said .
The Encor share pay dividend .
A Commerce Bank spokesman also declined comment asked whether pressing Dome sell Encor stake .
At current market price , Dome 's stake Encor would valued 308 mln dlrs , 20.9 mln Dome Mines share would worth 319 mln dlrs .
Recent strength price Encor share may also prompt Commerce Bank press Dome divest holding Canadian oil gas producer , analyst said .
`` Encor 's stock price improved quite substantially recent week runup crude price , '' Peters Co Ltd oil analyst Wilf Gobert commented .
`` The possibility Commerce Bank would like see sold level get able recent year , '' added .
Encor traded earlier Toronto Stock Exchange 7-1/8 , near 52-week high 7-1/2 around six dlrs early February .
The company also recently set operating management , previously carried Dome Petroleum , Maison Placements Canada Inc analyst Denis Mote commented .
Dome Encor `` actually going get farther apart .
So ( sale ) make lot sense , '' Mote said .
However , analyst said Dome resist move divest Encor favor retaining operating asset since sale proceeds would likely go directly pay Dome 's debt Commerce Bank .
`` I think 'll probably try hang onto Encor long , '' said Bache Securities Inc analyst Doug Weber .
Some Dome 's group 56 major creditor might move block sale , arguing claim company asset .
`` Other creditor generally want make sure something might able get piece sold , '' said analyst Gobert .
Another stumbling block would Encor 's 225 mln dlr joint liability loan Dome Petroleum advanced Arctic Petroleum Corp Japan Beaufort Sea exploration .
Analysts said similar hurdle could also hinder possible sale Dome Petroleum 's interest Dome Mines .
Dome Mines guaranteed 225 mln dlrs Dome Petroleum's debt `` right consent '' sale Dome Petroleum's holding .
Presumably , potential buyer Dome Mines share would seek type relief company 's debt obligation connected Dome Petroleum , Gobert said .
Dome spokesman Annesley earlier declined specify price company would consider selling Dome Mines share , said current price 15 dlrs share `` attractive .
'' Reuter & # 3 ; 