Brazil 's economic crisis forcing wholesale re-examination established strategy dealing developing-country debt , leading banker say .
While finance minister Dilson Funaro unlikely succeed attempt seeking outright political solution debt problem , Brazil 's suspension interest payment 68 billion dlrs commercial bank debt convinced least banker new idea needed .
`` The time come look alternative , '' one seasoned debt rescheduler said .
Even Brazil 's move , difficulty syndicating 77 billion dlr financing package Mexico agreed principle last October prompting top banker examine way managing debt crisis .
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker , , spoke recently `` debt fatigue '' need breathe new life debt rescheduling procedure .
There already sign change .
Japanese bank setting jointly owned firm transfer LDC loan bid strengthen balance sheet , improve financial management get tax break .
But banker said move toward greater governmental role gradual .
`` The process expect tangible progress short period time , '' one banker said .
Certainly , Funaro got frosty reception Washington several European capital past week called government official explain Brazil 's crusade political dialogue debt .
Assistant U.S. Treasury Secretary David Mulford , instance , criticized called large-scale solution debt forgiveness creation new multilateral lending agency .
`` While approach may political appeal , impractical ultimately counterproductive , '' Mulford told House subcommittee week .
He could added proposal might construed bail-out U.S. bank would non-starter Congress .
But banker said Reagan Administration could promote accounting regulatory change foster debt-equity swap debt securitization enable bank consider interest capitalization alternative new loan .
Experts say government must also make easier bank gradually write third-world loan book .
Mulford , Congressional testsimony , urged bank explore different option .
`` The bank encouraged look so-called menu approach , '' said .
Bankers said aim would keep loan syndicate intact , conversely , allow small bank write exposure way detrimental major lender .
Big bank say unfair small creditor continue receive interest old debt even contribute new loan .
In effect , large bank say making new loan fund interest payment old debt .
To solve problem - streamline cumbersome negotiating process - Argentina revived idea `` exit bond '' , would issued discount small creditor exchange existing debt , banker said .
The bank would rid loan would recognize loss .
Amid swirl new idea , even role commercial bank advisory committee come scrutiny .
The principle consensus panel operate challenged recently Citibank - ironically , original architect committee system - stubbornly refused time endorse financing offer Philippines Chile .
The strain gone unnoticed Washington .
`` There seem lot speculation frailty bank advisory committee , '' U.S. official said .
Brazil 's Funaro heavily criticized panel London Monday , charging unresponsive new idea U.S. bank over-represented .
Hannes Androsch , chairman Austria's Creditanstalt-Bankverein , said truth charge .
`` Sentiment growing Europe 're longer prepared bail U.S. bank , '' told reporter New York week .
While U.S. banker obviously see thing differently , started wonder whether advisory committee still right tool job .
`` The debt crisis probably evolved beyond capacity commercial bank alone , least case , '' one top New York rescheduler said .
But , government unable unwilling play larger role , banker see alternative advisory committee .
`` It 's worst form government apart others , '' one banker said , paraphrasing former British prime minister Winston Churchill 's opinion democracy .
Reuter & # 3 ; 