Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told closed investment symposium West Germany could cut leading interest rate United States make similar move , banking source said .
The source reporting Poehl 's remark symposium Duesseldorf last week organised Deutsche Bank Ag .
Press representative invited .
The source , speaking separately , said Poehl told 200 banker reply question cut U.S. Interest rate would give room matching measure Germany .
`` It definite hint lower German interest rate , '' said one banker attended symposium .
A Bundesbank spokesman said central bank would comment reported remark , made private meeting .
But , according second source , also declined identified , Poehl 's comment seen banker present direct pointer move central bank defend German industry additional revaluation mark .
`` He said Americans drop interest rate Bundesbank would also drop .
He said quite clearly , '' second source said .
In reply question , Poehl also said half-point cut discount Lombard rate January 22 came U.S. Had signalled would prepared attend meeting discus level dollar condition Germany made move advance , source said .
Asked American authority could persuaded , cut German rate , come bargaining table early last September , one source quoted Poehl saying , '' No , would n't .
We checked .
'' The Paris meeting Group Six industrial nation took place exactly one month German cut rate .
Poehl emphasised comment close talk central bank G-6 meeting , saying financial market fully realised significance Paris session U.S. Agreement stem fall value dollar , source said .
For first time participant summit agreed fall dollar would harmful world economy , including U.S. , Poehl said .
The source said tone Poehl 's comment boosted growing sentiment dollar would stabilised around current level international central bank cooperation .
One source said Poehl 's remark also underlined fact Bundesbank prepared accommodative monetary policy order prevent slowdown West Germany 's economic growth .
Poehl Bundesbank official past stressed German central bank direct responsibility growth solely concerned combatting inflation .
This led , instance , introduction tighter monetary stance beginning December half-point cut rate late January .
The source quoted Poehl saying current overshooting German monetary target would directly respark inflation .
The Bundesbank obliged react immediately whenever overshooting occurs .
Latest data central bank money stock , Bundesbank's main measure money supply , showed measure growing 7-1/2 pct January , outside three six pct 1987 target .
Share price rose active trading today , dealer reporting Poehl 's remark , coupled bullish outlook stock price Deutsche symposium , brought strong bargain hunting current low level .
REUTER & # 3 ; 