Ground-breaking new system storing retrieving information ushering new era computer company computer user .
Within past week , International Business Machines Corp & lt ; IBM > , Eastman Kodak Co & lt ; EK > others launched product radically increase amount data catalogued shelved computerized library .
`` This flurry new technology could yield system handle multimedia blitz data , '' said Ian Warhaftig , senior analyst International Data Corp , Framingham , Mass .
`` We 're developing new system customer asking , '' Peter Giles , vice president general manager Kodak 's mass memory division , said recent interview .
This demand expected soar coming year .
While estimate vary , industry analyst project providing product service geared information storage retrieval could become 20 billion dlr year business 1995 .
A wide range technology needed meet varying requirement user .
For example , large credit verification service would want system could quickly retrieve credit data relay client .
A law firm , however , may need computerized law library capacity , rather speed , key feature .
For architect engineer , ability store photograph , sketch graphic would crucial .
Regardless specific application , trend toward converting information - document , video film even sound recording - digital language zero one understood computer .
Saving space key goal digitizing data storage .
An optical disk size standard compact disk store 550 megabyte data , 250,000 page typewritten text .
For reason , compact disk read-only memory , CD-ROM , already popular data storage medium .
Last week , Microsoft introduced Microsoft Bookshelf , 300 dlr program contains , single CD-ROM disk , dictionary , thesaurus , national ZIP code directory , Bartlett 's Familiar Quotations , World Almanac reference work .
Scores product already market , specialty item , Lotus Development Corp 's & lt ; LOTS > CD-ROM data base stock information financial analyst investor .
`` Microsoft Bookshelf important mark arrival CD-ROM package general public , '' said Ian Warhaftig International Data Corp. One drawback CD-ROM , us laser record read data , requires special player .
CD-ROM player retail market appear later year .
Moreover , IDC 's Warhaftig said CD-ROM 's integrated personal computer .
`` Eventually , CD-ROM 's fit right inside PC box , '' said .
`` Imagine advantage spelling checker thesaurus fingertip 're writing word processing program .
'' But CD-ROM 's beginning .
Also last week , Kodak unveiled several system use 12-inch optical disk .
The largest Kodak system us jukebox-like cabinet hold 150 optical disk data retrieved matter second .
Kodak also announced 14-inch optical disk 6.8 gigabyte memory , five time memory CD-ROM .
The Kodak disk , available middle 1988 , designed user need quick access large amount data , said Kodak 's Giles .
Meanwhile , N.V. Philips & lt ; PGLO.AS > , Dutch electronics giant , preparing take optical disk technology step first disk combine text , video sound .
Philips said system , called Called CD-Interactive , ready next year .
It include new kind CD-ROM player hook television set stereo .
Additional breakthrough expected next generation computer memory chip introduced .
Last month IBM said made four-megabyte chip , capable storing data eight CD-ROM 's .
Meantime , & lt ; Nippon Telegraph Telephone > Japan said built 16-megabyte chip .
Analysts say commercial version chip several year away , though suspect IBM may start volume production four-megabyte chip sometime year .
Such chip enable computer maker build computer immense memory capacity .
Reuter & # 3 ; 