West German private bank , latest twist long-running battle size holding industry , said holding falling rejected call tighter limit participation .
Under West Germany 's banking system , bank hold share non-banking company giving seat company supervisory board , administer holding small shareholder safe custody account .
Holdings 25 pct , give veto right supervisory board company , must disclosed .
`` The claim concentration power intensified , made Monopolies Commission , therefore turn accurate ... There reason impose legal restriction acquisition holding bank , '' said .
The Association 's letter latest skirmish long running battle bank one hand range government office political lobby left right .
The number holding 10 pct public company nominal share capital one mln mark held 10 bank fell 86 1986 129 1976 , said .
Of 43 reduction , 41 represented holding 25 pct 1976 .
The bank ' holding nominal share capital fell 1.70 billion mark 1986 , 1.34 billion adjusted capital change past 10 year 1.80 billion 1976 .
Over period total West German nominal share capital rose 235 billion mark 136 billion , holding bank German company fell 0.7 pct 1.3 pct .
The nominal share capital listed non-bank company rose estimated 49 billion mark 1986 35.58 billion 1976 , bank ' holding falling 1.57 billion mark 3.2 pct 1.61 billion mark 4.5 pct , Association said .
It argued bank representative minority supervisory board 100 biggest German company , case could blocked non-banking representative .
The survey covered Deutsche Bank AG & lt ; DBKG.F > , Dresdner Bank AG & lt ; DRSD.F > , Commerzbank AG & lt ; CBKG.F > , Bayerische Vereinsbank AG & lt ; BVMG.F > Bayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank AG & lt ; BHWG.F > .
It also covered Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bank & lt ; BHFG.F > , & lt ; Berliner Bank AG > , & lt ; Industriekreditbank AG > , Vereins- und Westbank AG & lt ; VHBG.F > & lt ; Baden-Wuerttembergische Bank AG > .
Deutsche hold far largest number stake , including 28.5 pct Daimler-Benz AG & lt ; DAIG.F > .
Criticism bank holding come Monopolies Commission left-wing party .
An advisory commission , report late last year Economics Ministry , urged implementation five pct proposed Monopolies Commission promote competition avoid interest conflict .
The Economics Ministry controlled liberal Free Democrat Party , junior partner centre-right coalition government increasingly favour deregulation .
Furthermore West German Supreme Court recently supported action private Deutsche shareholder demanding transparency bank 's balance sheet .
The shareholder argued bank 's ability declare industrial stake 25 pct temporary holding evaded statutory requirement report full .
If bank declares stake temporary disclose include security holding .
The case due heard Frankfurt higher regional court .
REUTER & # 3 ; 