Disagreement management & lt ; San Miguel Corp > ( SMC ) may follow Philippine government's appointment well-known banker SMC board , investment analyst said .
They told Reuters presence & lt ; United Coconut Planters Bank > ( UCPB ) president Ramon Sy board SMC may mean change SMC management , decade controlled family president , Andres Soriano .
Sy appointed government commission control 51 pct San Miguel 's stock , another nominee resigned .
The Presidential Commission Good Government ( PCGG ) hold six seat 15-member SMC board , represent 33.13 mln sequestered share .
The stock seized suspicion owned Eduardo Cojuangco , chairman UCPB San Miguel .
He close associate deposed president Ferdinand Marcos , left country Marcos 's fall .
Before seizure , Soriano led 3.3 billion peso bid share , paying UCPB 500 mln peso deposit .
The bid valued share 100 peso .
They traded 93 peso today , 95.50 Friday 's close .
Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin told reporter Saturday Sy would definitely sit SMC board despite objection director associated Soriano .
`` I n't think conflict interest , '' said .
`` I potentially concerned seeing situation contentious atmosphere board .
But Sy assured ( government ) intend behave contentious manner , '' Ongpin added .
The Soriano group cited conflict interest opposing Sy 's directorship .
Its lawyer said letter PCGG pending suit seeking forfeiture SMC 's 500 mln peso deposit major undisclosed damage brewery represented clear conflict .
UCPB , however , sought board representation Sy's appointment , petitioning PCGG `` interest owner 33 mln share would adequately protected .
'' Investment analyst polled Reuters said UCPB right slot SMC board trustee coconut farmer claim ownership disputed share .
The analyst said Sy , backed government , would probably suggest replacement PCGG nominee expected resign soon keeping new law prohibiting government official working private company .
SMC 's annual election scheduled May .
A UCPB spokesman declined comment , saying PCGG decide appoint .
One analyst said objection understandable family founded company 97 year ago .
`` It natural instinct self-preservation Soriano , '' said .
SMC posted net income 448.8 mln peso 1985 net sale 10.99 billion peso 422.3 mln 1984 sale 10.36 billion .
REUTER & # 3 ; 