Mathematical Applications Group Inc said signed letter intent sell operating business propose plan liquidation following sale .
If company unsuccessful obtaining approval needed sale liquidation , said , company may required initiate reorganization proceeding federal bankruptcy law facilitie distribution asset .
Mathematical Applications said tentatively agreed sell direct marketing business Pagex Inc 400,000 dlrs plus amount equal working capital business closing well 1.7 mln dlr note payable installment six year .
Mathematical Applications said business ' working capital estimated 600,000 dlrs .
Pagex formed Paul A. Goldner owner Pagex Systems Inc , also engaged direct marketing computer service business .
Mathematical Applications said tentative agreement call Pagex buy substantially asset liability related direct marketing business continue use Mathematical Applications name .
It said sale also subject renegotiation real estate lease approval definitive agreement company 's board , stock holder debenture holder .
The company said obtained waiver holder six mln dlrs principal amount debenture due March 31 , 1993 , defer interest payment aggregating 270,000 dlrs March 31 , 1987 .
The company said seek waiver defer interest payment , due March 31 , enough time enable company accomplish proposed sale operation .
Mathematical Applications said talking debenture holder , landlord , lessor equipment marketing operation holder liability assumed Pagex arrange distribution asset proposed sale , adding asset significantly le liability .
The company said obtained waiver holder six mln dlrs principal amount debenture due March 31 , 1993 , defer interest payment aggregating 270,000 dlrs March 31 , 1987 .
The company said seek waiver defer payment , due March 31 , enough time accomplish proposed sale operation .
Mathematical Applications said talking debenture holder , landlord , lessor equipment marketing operation holder liability Pages assuming arrange distribution asset proposed sale , adding asset significantly le liability .
As part distribution asset , company said , expects shareholder receive amount based bid price company 's stock , 1/16 March five .
Reuter & # 3 ; 