Chrysler Corp 's proposed acquisition American Motors Corp valued 1.55 billion dlrs , including cost acquisition 767 mln dlrs American Motor ' debt Chrysler assume , analyst said .
They said Chrysler 's cost acquisition valued 782 mln dlrs , paid cash , note Chrysler share .
The analyst told Reuters New York briefing Chrysler treasurer Fred Zuckerman outlined company's agreement Renault assume AMC 's debt well 332 mln dlrs unfunded pension liability , though latter included valuing transaction .
Analysts generally positive Chrysler 's proposed purchase much-smaller rival , said expected transaction would carry short-term dilution Chrysler 's earnings .
A Chrysler financial source , speaking anonymously , told Reuters proposed purchase price smaller would deal struck last year impact new U.S. tax law remove Chrysler 's ability assume AMC 's large reserve tax-loss carryforwards accumulated loss since 1980 .
`` There serious discussion last fall n't pull , '' source said reference assassination November former Renault chairman Georges Besse .
`` It 's bad tax benefit fell floor .
And Renault could gotten much better price 'd done end last year .
'' In addition AMC 's debt pension liability , source said Chrysler would also assume liability lawsuit safety Jeeps , called `` overhang company .
'' Analysts quoted Chrysler official told deal includes payment Renault 200 mln dlrs principal form 10-year note eight pct interest , 35 mln dlrs cash Renault 's equity AMC 's finance subsidiary , 25 mln dlrs cash `` transaction fee '' connection acquisition 522 mln dlrs worth Chrysler stock paid AMC shareholder .
`` The big number 767 mln dlrs debt assumption , '' analyst Jack Kirnan Kidder Peabody Co told Reuters .
Moody 's Investors Service Inc said may downgrade 12 billion dlrs Chrysler Corp unit debt due deal .
But Chrysler source said assuming AMC's liability , company refinance lower rate AMC debt carried `` non-market '' rate .
He said difficulty negotiating previous Renault management acquisition committed group 's business plan AMC integral part .
`` The new management n't problem - AMC wasn't baby , '' said .
Reuter & # 3 ; 