Japanese microchip maker strong-armed compliance U.S.-Japan pact semiconductor halting predatory pricing opening Japan's market foreign chip , industry analyst said .
But doubt remain whether Ministry International Trade Industry ( MITI ) , pressuring firm , successfully battle market force whether U.S. Industry geared take advantage breathing space , said .
U.S .
Threats scrap agreement signed last September pushed MITI try harder get recalcitrant Japanese chipmakers abide pact , analyst said .
`` MITI moving hot heavy throughout industry get thing done , '' said Bache Securities ( Japan ) associate vice president Peter Wolffe .
Last month , MITI told chipmakers cut production January March period 10 pct help dry inexpensive chip escaped Japan grey market subject pact 's price control .
The ministry also asked electronics firm provide distributor certificate designating authorised exporter , effort close loophole grey marketeers sneak chip Japan , market analyst said .
U.S. Trade negotiator last week said pact jeopardy continued dumping non-American market little sign increased foreign sale Japan .
But major Japanese firm appear agreed production cut , several analyst said .
Last week , NEC Corp said would cut production line MITI 's request .
`` NEC aggressive resisting MITI's demand , '' said David Keller , analyst James Capel Co. `` Once NEC cut production , mean .
'' Still , pressure remain keep production high .
Japanese firm need high output cut unit price U.S .
Sales Commerce Department assigns pact .
`` The best way lower cost produce , '' said Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec .
Preparations possible upturn demand could also spur higher production next quarter , Merrill Lynch analyst Matt Aizawa said .
Grey marketeers may also able outfox new restriction , industry official said .
`` It 's like tax avoidance scheme , '' said Steve Donovan , head MMI Japan K.K .
`` As soon close one route , another open .
'' MITI 's pressure annoyed maker , earlier shrugged MITI guidance .
`` It 's getting like communism , '' said one .
But analyst said output cut could help making easier increase price planned April 1 forcing firm stop extending market share selling loss .
`` They 're going start running business like business , '' Bache 's Wolffe said .
MITI also conducting highly public campaign urging chip user buy foreign-made chip , U.S. Industry official said response mixed best .
`` There change , 's across board , '' said one U.S .
Spokesman .
`` The company varying degree urgency .
'' The ultimate impact effort MITI troubled U.S. Industry remains doubt , analyst added .
Pressure cut production 256 kilobit DRAM ( dynamic random access memory ) chip could merely speed transition one megabit chip , Japan lead , analyst said .
Whether U.S. Firms able stage comeback memory chip , interested , also remains unclear , said .
Analysts watching interest fate new U.S. Consortium hope challenge Japan developing advanced technology microchip manufacturing .
Even thorny area access , much depends U.S .
Commitment well Japanese openness , said .
`` The SIA ( U.S. Semiconductor Industry Association ) doesn't even office , '' source close industry said .
`` You could question committed .
'' In addition , industry analyst question effectiveness bilateral agreement leaf third country chipmakers South Korea .
`` ( South ) Korea 's gaining market share , '' said one analyst .
`` They 're real winner agreement .
'' REUTER & # 3 ; 