Italy 's strong economic revival led observer talk miracle created euphoria quarter future growth prospect , many Italian expert warn current wave optimism excessive .
`` I think foreign interest so-called Italian miracle really exaggerated ... Foreign observer always oscillate case Italy complete pessimism unwarranted optimism , '' say Luigi Spaventa , one Italy's leading economist professor Rome University .
According Spaventa , violent swing mood occurring last 15 year , Italy one minute seen `` bad boy Europe '' unable raise dollar next worker miracle basking admiration , `` I think 's lot exaggeration ... Once used underground economy correspondent foreign newspaper flocked Italy study .
That another story nothing - like writing black cat dark room .
'' Spaventa , tune economist industrialist , stress Italy 's recent achievement , particularly dramatic solid recovery fortune industrial enterprise , warns economy still vulnerable .
Profits private sector firm Fiat S.P.A. , & lt ; FIAT.M > & lt ; ING .
C. Olivetti C. S.P.A. > booming , major state industry back black year loss , inflation nosedived trade balance payment deficit slashed .
Expectations expert Italy poised replace Britain world's fifth largest economy also boosted optimism .
Italy made clear happy feel second-rate status among major industrialised country .
Only week , angrily demanded clarification status excluded meeting finance minister Group Five ( G-5 ) - comprising United States , Japan , West Germany , France Britain .
Italy said exclusion meeting violated agreement reached Tokyo last year let Italy Canada attend meeting held five whenever discussion concerned managing international monetary system .
But Italy need first tackle fundamental problem still facing economy , economist industrialist say .
`` We must forget still vulnerable economy , '' warns Fiat managing director Cesare Romiti .
He say Italy 's recent achievement indeed cause satisfaction optimism , focus problem still remaining rather already solved .
The country 's huge state sector deficit , high unemployment heavy dependence imported oil among worrying problem , expert say .
The size state spending deficit -- estimated 109,561 billion lira 1986 targetted 100,000 billion lira year -- mean risk inflation could spiral , say Carlo Scognamiglio , head private Luiss university Rome .
Inflation fell single digit first time decade September 1984 January year running 4.5 pct , still low enough guarantee international competiveness , economist industrialist say .
And unemployment running 11.6 pct nationally last October according latest official data .
Recent official data showed total 2.77 million people seeking work October 1986 , almost 73 pct aged 14 29 .
Unemployment south running 17.7 pct , double industrial north .
The Organisation Economic Cooperation Development ( OECD ) recently forecast Italian gross domestic product ( GDP ) would rise rise three pct 1987 expanding 2.5 pct 1986 .
But warned growth unlikely enough check rising unemployment .
Another problem Italy 's reliance imported raw material .
The country import around 80 pct fuel need .
This factor actually worked sharply Italy 's favour last year , lower energy cost helped slash country 's trade deficit 3,717 billion lira year end 23,085 billion lira 1985 .
But economist say improvement owes little structural change Italian economy reversal trend cost could serious consequence .
If Italy truly want counted among world 's top industrialised nation , also need tighten stockmarket operating procedure encourage firm supply quality information activity , economist say .
Italy control insider trading .
The country also need shed rigid capital movement control -- European Community directive call dismantled 1992 -- require le blinkered attitude change traditional operating procedure , economist say .
`` Even today , I wanted invest Tokyo bourse , I doubt I 'd find expertise brokerage firm bank would allow , '' say Spaventa .
REUTER & # 3 ; 