China 's foreign debt reached 27 billion dlrs end 1986 , despite over-exposure short-term credit yen borrowing , China remains creditworthy improved 1987 export outlook , foreign banker Chinese official told Reuters .
Foreign banker said China 's total debt rose sharply estimated 20 billion dlrs end-1985 cover increased import commitment debt/equity ratio remains low , eight 10 pct .
China remains cautious popular borrower , said .
Zhang Haoruo , vice minister Foreign Economic Relations Trade , said last Friday China signed foreign loan agreement 6.94 billion dlrs last year , 96.6 pct 1985 , actual loan amounting 4.83 billion , 93 pct .
Officials said China would borrow 25 30 billion dlrs 1986-90 five year plan period , foreign banker said estimate foreign loan 30 40 billion .
A Western banker said China 's portfolio contains much short-term debt much denominated yen result aggressive lending Japanese bank attractive low interest rate Japanese market .
The strong yen appreciation cost China dearly likely make reduce new yen borrowing , banker said .
A Chinese trade official estimated yen component country 's total debt 30 pct .
The Peking representative Japanese security house said rapid yen rise caught China firm unawares .
`` Interest rate Japan historical low , China , remain active borrower year , likely go elsewhere capital , get better currency spread , '' said .
The Western banker said excess short-term loan part result China 's inexperience foreign capital market , entered early 1980s .
`` Officials think China department firm .
Some loan entered full backing People 's Republic China , '' said .
`` The dilemma China , foreign borrowing area , balance central control giving reasonable autonomy firm .
It searching mechanism exercise indirect control , '' said .
The banker said official stressed repeatedly past six week China 's foreign borrowing affected drive `` bourgeois liberalism , '' phrase meaning Western political idea , following dismissal Communist Party chief Hu Yaobang January 16 .
A U.S. Banker said evidence China's foreign exchange reserve fallen officially stated figure 10 billion dlrs .
`` The Bank China buyer seller market , would know quickly buying heavily advance announcement reserve , '' said .
The banker said buying going .
`` Things normal .
Trade deficit China last year 1985 normal country stage development .
'' Customs figure show China trade deficit 11.9 billion dlrs 1986 , 14 billion 1985 .
A Ministry Foreign Economic Relations Trade official said year 's outlook export , account 75 pct foreign exchange earnings , much healthier year ago .
The renminbi matched U.S. Dollar fall , said .
It quoted 3.72 today , little changed 3.7 year ago .
The official said China taken measure improve export performance , including incentive offer exporter establishment export production base .
`` We expect higher price oil export year , '' added .
Official estimate put China 's 1986 export loss drop world oil price three billion dlrs .
A Western diplomat said China 's foreign debt need careful management debt service ratio remains low six eight pct .
`` We base assessment China 's foreign exchange reserve export performance , ass company performance , bank account , '' said .
He said China performed well export field last year remains creditworthy country difficulty increasing borrowing .
REUTER & # 3 ; 