South Korea open market help cut trade surplus U.S. And fight pressure revalue dollar , government spokesman said .
The spokesman said Korean trade minister Rha Woong-Bae's stand Washington yesterday pressure industrial nation revalue underlined government's determination stand firm .
Rha told U.S. Chamber Commerce `` Demands Korea carry drastic sudden currency revaluation five 10 pct , I believe , extremely ill-advised .
'' Deputy prime minister Kim Mahn-Je told meeting local businessmen `` The government 's policy question revaluing maintain steadfast position .
'' Kim said South Korea ready move slowly raise 's value heavy foreign debt stood 44.5 billion dlrs end 1986 .
Six industrialised nation agreed Paris last month newly industrialising country , South Korea Taiwan , allow currency appreciate .
But local businessmen said won/dollar parity already reached `` crisis level .
'' An official Korea Traders ' Association ( KTA ) said strengthened another five pct , would mean loss profitability nearly half South Korean exporter .
`` We determined go way Latin American debtor nation suspended interest payment debt , '' spokesman said .
`` The way keep good record maintain exports.+ The trade minister said yesterday Seoul revalue suddenly Korea would run `` tremendous trade deficit could degenerate country , like many developing country , reneging international obligation .
'' The spokesman said South Korea gradually appreciating currency , ruling major revaluation .
So far year , gone 0.8 pct dollar 3.34 pct revaluation 1986 .
He said South Korea selecting `` many '' 122 item Washington recently asked Seoul lower tariff help narrow trade surplus U.S. No detail given .
Seoul announced January lifting ban 158 item , including sensitive agricultural product large car , effective July .
South Korea posted first ever current account surplus last year , due largely trade surplus U.S. Of 7.1 billion dlrs , 4.3 billion deficit 1985 .
It earlier forecast current account surplus could reach eight billion dlrs year .
But government official said surplus would held around five billion dlrs avoid pressure industrialised nation push value currency .
REUTER & # 3 ; 