The U.S. urging reluctant commercial bank seriously consider accepting novel Philippine proposal paying interest bill belief innovation fully consistent Third World debt strategy , Reagan administration official said .
The official 's comment also suggest debtor ' plea interest rate concession treated much seriously commercial bank , case developing nation carrying genuine economic reform .
In addition , signaled bank might want reconsider idea `` megabank , '' Third World debt would pooled , suggested administration would support plan , even though formally proposing .
At time , however , official expressed reservation scheme would ever get ground .
The Philippine proposal , together Argentine suggestion `` exit bond '' issued end troublesome role small bank debt strategy , would help underpin flagging role private bank within plan , official said interview Reuters .
`` All thing would fit within definition initiative asked think novel unique approach considered , '' said official , asked named .
In October 1985 , Washington outlined debt crisis strategy commercial bank multilateral institution World Bank International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) urged step lending major debtor nation .
In return , America called debtor country enact economic reform promoting inflation-free economic growth .
`` The multilaterals performing well , debtor performing well , '' said official .
But admitted largest Third World debtor , Brazil , clearly exception .
The official , played key role developing U.S. Debt strategy administration economic policymaker , also said new idea would help commercial bank improve role resolving Third World debt crisis .
`` We called beginning bank syndication find procedure process whereby could operate effectively , '' official said .
Among idea , official said , suggestion commercial bank create `` megabank '' could swap Third World debt paper so-called `` exit bond '' bank like regional American European institution .
Such bond theory would rid bank need lend money former debtor every time new money package assembled , suggested Argentina current negotiation new loan 2.15 billion dlrs .
He emphasised `` megabank '' administration plan `` something people suggested .
'' Other U.S. Officials said Japanese commercial bank examining creation consortium bank assume Third World debt .
This plan , actively consideration , would differ slightly one official described .
But official expressed deep misgiving plan would work United States .
`` If bank thought suitable way go , fine .
I n't think ever .
'' He pointed bank would swap Third World loan capital megabank might reluctant provide new money debtor new institution .
Meanwhile , official praised Philippine plan would make interest payment debt cash 5/8 pct Libor .
`` The Philippine proposal interesting , 's quite unique I n't think 's something categorically rejected hand , '' official said .
Banks found level unacceptably low would offered alternative Libor payment cash margin one pct form Philippine Investment Notes .
These tradeable , dollar-denominated note would six-year life bank swapped cash maturity , country would guarantee payment 7/8 point Libor .
Until , banker criticised spread far low .
The talk , second week , aimed stretching repayment 3.6 billion dlrs debt granting easier term 5.8 billion already rescheduled debt .
The country , enjoyed strong political support Washington since Corazon Aquino came power early last year , owes overall 27.8 billion dlrs debt .
But official denied plan amount interest rate capitalisation , development unacceptable bank .
`` It 's interest rate capitalisation write spread Libor existed , '' official said comment suggesting ought granted rate concession seek .
`` Some people argue ( cutting spread ) debt forgiveness ... What really narrowing spread new money , '' added .
He said U.S. Debt strategy sufficiently broad initiative include plan like Philippines ' .
Reuter & # 3 ; 