Interest currency future market shifted soaring British pound potentially explosive Canadian dollar , away dull Continental Japanese currency , analyst said .
The June pound , added 6.3 cent past week-and-a-half reach new contract high 1.5930 dollar Monday , spawned new-found speculative boom .
`` Brokers push client somewhere ... technically , pound best shape , '' PaineWebber analyst Jason Gillard said .
`` We 've tried take bullish approach pound , 're going stay , 's reason change , '' Smith Barney analyst Craig Sloane said .
Many trader took long pound/short West German mark future position , although cross-trades liquidated yesterday , Sloane said .
The fundamental key pound 's rise relatively high U.K. interest rate vague optimism surrounding British economy , analyst said .
`` Money seems chasing yield , '' William Byers , Bear Stearns , said 10-1/2 pct U.K. base lending rate .
Many analyst skeptical gain pound , inference Bank England seek relieve upward pressure currency pushing interest rate nation 's budget released March 17 .
The budget could impact , depending well received , analyst say relative interest rate oil income remain main influence currency .
However , market may able absorb lower U.K. interest rate , done country cut discount rate , extend pound 's rally , Sloane said .
The Canadian dollar rising like pound , Sloane analyst cautiously predicted big move soon .
The sideways price pattern June contract , smaller smaller price range , formed `` bull flag '' price chart , technically-oriented analyst said .
`` It make explosive type situation often lead breakout , '' case upside , Sloane said .
Byers agreed potential June Canadian dollar rally 77.00 cent level recent close 74.80 cent U.S. dollar .
`` At stage game I 'd call market long-term positive , technical burden proof need close ( previous contract high ) 75.25 , '' Byers said .
As traditionally active currency , stability catchword reluctance watchword among analyst .
Sloane said important June Swiss franc June German mark held support 0.6400 0.5400 , respectively , closing 0.6438 0.5430 .
Yesterday 's rebound showed market still respectful Paris accord , threat central bank intervention G-5 nation plus Canada .
`` We may still probe see parameter , '' Byers said , `` people reluctant n't know central bank ( intervene ) .
'' Gillard said mark could drop previous price consolidation area around 0.5250 based profoundly sluggish West German economy , would buyer level .
Reuter & # 3 ; 