A rift occured among Philippine official debt talk opening tomorrow New York Economic Planning Secretary Solita Monsod accusing chief negotiator softening stand gain quick agreement .
Monsod told Reuters Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin decided insist Manila 's creditor bank pledging fund half projected 1988/92 financing gap seven billion dlrs .
`` He ( Ongpin ) want finish negotiation fast possible .
I 'm saying 's short-sighted , '' Monsod said .
Monsod said pricing agreement rescheduling 3.6 billion dlrs Philippines ' total foreign debt 27.8 billion dlrs would ignore looming 14 billion dlr net resource transfer period .
Manila seeking spread 5/8 percentage point London Interbank Offered Rates ( LIBOR ) .
Monsod said , `` Right saying bank , let's share financing burden .
'' Ongpin said last month country 's consultative group multilateral bilateral aid donor endorsed growth facility bridge funding gap .
He said government consultative group would meet annually gauge financing need year .
The aid donor commercial bank creditor would asked finance gap shared basis .
He told reporter Saturday would unwise try pin bank Monsod 's proposed growth facility .
Ongpin acknowledged dispute tactic .
`` Secretary Monsod I get along famously , '' said .
`` She talk I listen I n't necessarily agree .
'' Monsod said firm commitment bank bridging financing gap would aided government's pump-priming program 1987/92 medium-term development plan .
She said private sector investment continued held back fear balance payment crisis rising interest rate , country would fail achieve gross national product ( GNP ) growth target average 6.5 pct next six year .
`` If n't get seven billion dlrs plan .
How program finance ? '' said , adding Ongpin 's stand good economy .
`` It ( Ongpin 's stand ) going make much difficult economy attain growth target , '' Monsod said .
`` Considering Philippine negotiating team going press absolutely reason able come back ( New York ) day , '' said .
Monsod , government 's chief economic planner , stressed Manila 's policy growth debt .
She said bank refused lend new money , Philippines copy Brazil 's action last week freezing debt repayment .
`` If bank cooperate lending back money sending abroad , course option , '' Monsod said .
`` You n't send abroad .
You Brazil .
'' REUTER & # 3 ; 