National Bank Hungary first vice-president Janos Fekete said hoped planned eight pct devaluation forint spur export redress last year 's severe trade deficit West .
Fekete told Reuters interview Hungary must achieve least equilibrium hard currency trade .
`` It useful devaluation , '' said .
`` There real push export bit curb import .
'' The official news agency MTI said today Hungary would devalue eight pct expected new rate announced later today .
Fekete said rate would come effect tomorrow .
He said one reason devaluation Hungary higher rate inflation past two year main partner ( around eight pct 1985 five 5.5 pct 1986 ) .
This partly after-effect action Hungary took prevent inflation soaring oil price shock 1970s , added .
Hungary devalued similar amount last September three four pct early last year .
But country 's hard currency trade balance nevertheless fell deficit 539.4 mln dlrs surplus 295.3 mln 1986 1.2 billion 1985 .
Fekete said Hungary hoping hard currency trade surplus 200 300 mln dlrs year , likely outcome would closer equilibrium total hard currency trade around 10 billion dlrs .
One Western commercial attache said : `` Devaluation change anything .
It useful also make effort restructure industry improve quality export good .
'' Fekete said hoped raise credit good term year invest restructuring industry .
It would role persuade international bank cooperate process .
He noted Hungary given AA rating enabling raise money Japanese Samurai bond market .
Hungary 's net hard currency debt soared 7.79 billion dlrs last year 5.01 billion 1985 , partly current account deficit 1.42 billion dlrs partly fall dollar increased dollar value debt denominated mark yen .
He said feared net debt would also rise slightly year , favour borrowing purpose modernisation .
`` I credit invest purpose , '' said .
`` I credit consumption .
'' He forecast gross domestic product growth two pct year , one pct 1986 .
Fekete said Hungary would continue restructure debt profile prepaying high interest shorter medium term loan cheaper long term money looking fixed interest rate bond market , considered rate low .
Hard currency foreign exchange reserve would stay around 3.5 billion dlrs , said .
On budget deficit , tripled provisional 47 billion forint last year quadrupling 1985 , Fekete said finance ministry working measure reduce approved target deficit year 43.8 billion forint 30 35 billion forint .
REUTER & # 3 ; 