Brazil would suspended payment debt owed foreign bank received faster financing official lending agency , Finance Minister Dilson Funaro said .
He said would seek money International Monetary Fund Brazil paid 922 mln dlrs last year said Brazil 's problem could solved IMF intervention .
`` It 's question official lending agency don't finance little bit quickly easily , '' Funaro told reporter Brazilian Embassy .
Asked Brazil would continued making payment monthly interest foreign commercial bank lender official lending agency provided fund , replied , '' Yes , country receive financing agency .
'' Asked long payment suspension would last , Funaro said `` It depends kind financing going receive side .
'' Brazil , foreign debt totaling 108 billion dlrs , stunned banking community last week suspending payment 68 billion dlrs owed private bank .
Funaro said Brazil paid 44 billion dollar World Bank lending agency commercial bank past four year got 11 billion dlrs loan .
He said net transfer hurting country's continued growth capacity import good .
`` Something wrong system .
Some mechanism found finance country like Brazil , '' Funaro said .
He specify step mind said would like see `` automatic '' official lending needed Brazil would dip dwindling reserve , reported four billion dlrs .
Funaro said Brazil world 's third-largest trade surplus estimated 1987 surplus would least eight billion dlrs .
But said without increased faster lending official institution , nation could rely export earnings finance development import also service debt .
`` We must find equilibrium foreign adjustment internal adjustment , '' Funaro said .
He complained official lending agency imposed tight control credit past four year , leaving commercial bank refinancing credit available .
Funaro said U.S official understand position `` n't like .
'' Later left Washington tour Europe debt discussion official Britain , West Germany , France , Switzerland Italy .
Brazil 's central cank President Francisco Gros said sent telex creditor bank Friday clarify confusion Brazil 's request bank expedite procedure renewal short-term interbank credit trade credit line .
Reuter & # 3 ; 