U.K. Interest rate look set move lower even Monday 's half-point cut bank base rate 10-1/2 pct , analyst said , citing evidence suspension British National Savings issue yesterday .
The Department National Savings , effectively Treasury Department unit , yesterday suspended 32nd issue , launched October paying high tax-free 8-3/4 pct five-year private investment 25 5,000 stg .
A spokesman said suspension reaction yield national saving bond way line rest market .
The move followed surprise sell-out within minute today Bank England one-billion stg tap issue , second issue many week , analyst noted .
They said near-instant sale entire new gilt issue , Bank England required high 40 pct downpayment , clear evidence market thought rate drop sooner rather later .
The sale tranche 8-3/4 pct treasury bond due 1997 occurred active , bullish gilt market downward pressure money market rate remained intact , bellwether three-month interbank rate 1/8 point 10-9-7/8 pct .
It coincided another strong sterling rally pushed pound four-year high dollar .
`` That government stock disappeared quickly indeed , '' said Stephen Lewis , head economic research stockbroker Phillips Drew ; `` It indication market belief rate going fall ... At least half-point immediately budget ( March 17 ) , people hope .
'' Stockbrokers James Capel said comment move National Savings Department `` considerable significance .
'' It said , `` real message ... Is deck quickly cleared facilitate speedy decision building society cut rate inevitable cut bank base rate 10 pct materialises .
'' Building society said drop bank base rate would normally exceed half point give rise reduction mortgage lending rate .
Lewis Phillips Drew said believed National Savings issue suspension may reflect new U.K. Treasury policy point building society towards mortgage rate cut .
`` National Savings competing effectively building society late .
Building society income depressed recent month , '' said .
He analyst said Chancellor Exchequer Nigel Lawson keen see mortgage rate fall keep lid U.K. Inflation .
Underlying upward pressure price stronger Britain Western economy inflation seen rising well four pct year five pct 1988 last year 's 3.7 pct .
Emphasising impact mortgage rate consumer price , Lewis said one-point cut building society rate would reduce inflation Britain 0.4 pct .
But Lewis others noted building society complaining government intense competition National Savings , argued reduced scope early mortgage rate cut .
`` The Chancellor need worried losing PSBR funding National Savings , must taking building society ' criticism heart .
It look like National Savings move reflects , '' one senior dealer said .
A Savings Department spokesman refused comment interpretation , saying suspension issue merely reaction recent fall U.K. Interest rate , pushed yield national saving bond way line rest market .
`` We politically motivated ... Funding becoming expensive n't need money , '' told Reuters , adding department suspended issue least twice past , offered interest rate market rate .
He said demand issue risen sharply late U.K. Money market rate continued steady decline income threatening overshoot unofficial three billion stg target set fiscal 1986 ending March 31 .
In first 10 month fiscal 1986 , National Saving's contribution government funding totalled 2.72 billion stg , compared 2.01 billion stg period previous year , official figure show .
Figures February , Monday , expected show increase 300 400 mln stg , pushing total 11 month target , government official said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 