Chrysler Corp today sold 405 mln dlrs corporate bond nearly 3.5 billion dlr pension fund Wall Street investment banker , vice president treasurer Fred Zuckerman said .
He said first two planned sale corporate issue fund 's portfolio .
Zuckerman said Chrysler sell slightly le one billion dlrs corporates .
`` Phase two ( second sale ) month , '' Chrysler executive said , adding proceeds invested exclusively equity market .
Before today 's sale corporate bond , security comprised roughly two third pension fund portfolio .
`` After two sale , equity amount 50 pct portfolio , '' Zuckerman said .
`` We believe equity market much upside potential bond market , '' executive said .
`` Interest rate coming I would bet lot drop sharply .
'' He added , `` I personally think interest rate may decline 50 basis point year .
'' Zuckerman said 405 mln dlr bond sale composed 139 separate issue .
`` Sixty pct utility , 20 pct issued foreign government corporation , 20 pct financial institution , '' detailed .
The Chrysler treasurer said corporate paper typically 18-year maturity .
`` The security long-term , high-quality bond , mostly rated AA-minus A-plus , '' said .
Zuckerman said Chrysler sold corporate bond 1.6 pct yesterday 's closing price issue .
`` That showed portfolio desirable , '' commented .
Corporate bond trader noted Chrysler 's sale occurred backdrop slightly weak secondary market .
They said believed Chrysler sold corporates large profit issue bought automaker portfolio interest rate much higher .
Chrysler 's Zuckerman said company sold corporate issue four large Wall Street security firm .
He said Morgan Stanley Co Inc Salomon Brothers Inc bought bond .
However , Zuckerman declined name two house .
Yesterday , Chrysler presented four investment banker list bond asked submit bid morning .
Zuckerman said Morgan Stanley bought corporate bond one three house .
Wall Street source said believed First Boston Corp Merrill Lynch Capital Markets also bidding corporate bond .
They believed two firm awarded bond carmaker well .
A spokesman Morgan declined comment referred inquiry Chrysler .
Officials Salomon , First Boston Merrill Lynch unavailable immediate comment .
Reuter & # 3 ; 