With troop place Brazil's port oil installation , government Prersident Jose Sarney today sought end wave labour unrest show force .
Yesterday government sent thousand troop supported instance tank occupy nine oil refinery six area oil production .
The state-oil company Petrobras requested intervention threatened strike 55,000 oil industry employee .
The government already dispatched 1,000 marine occupy country 's main port national seaman 's strike ruled illegal last Friday .
The strike 40,000 seaman , 13th day , represents stern challenge government .
The stoppage delayed export time Brazil desperately need foreign exchange .
It deterioration country 's trade balance precipitated Brazil 's current debt crisis decision February 20 suspend interest payment 68 billion dlrs commercial debt .
There sign today early end seamen's strike , badly hit port Santos -- important South America -- country 's main port .
Small group marine armed submachineguns stand quay near strike-bound ship , military presence generally discreet .
A total 800 marine inside dock sight .
Yesterday marine police occupied one ship , Docemarte , seaman 's leader said .
After explaining captain striker faced one year jail strike illegal , men returned work .
One strike leader , Elmano Barbosa , said `` psychological war .
They using force using peaceful method .
'' Port source said two Brazilian ship Santos , Docemarte Henrique Leal , working .
At seaman 's national strike headquarters Rio de Janeiro , spokesman say total 190 ship strike-bound Brazil foreign port .
Contradicting earlier report strike headquarters Rio de Janeiro , seaman Santos said striker board ship running food .
The current labour unrest worst faced Sarney's civilian government since came power two year ago .
Yesterday , separate protest , hundred thousand farmer held rally directed largely high bank interest rate .
The current rash labour unrest industry agriculture stem failure government's now-collapsed Cruzado Plan price freeze .
Reuter & # 3 ; 