A group state official key U.S. senator said corporate merger wave harming economy blamed Reagan administration laxness enforcing federal antitrust law .
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum , Ohio Democrat chair Senate Judiciary Committee 's Antitrust Subcommittee , also cautioned Department Justice ( DOJ ) comply request listing case since 1980 department official rejected staff recommendation prosecute suspected antitrust violation .
Metzenbaum asked data Monday , DOJ failed meet deadline later hinted might refuse comply .
Acting Assistant Attorney General Antitrust Charles Rule defended administration 's record antitrust enforcement told panel today 's hearing department process preparing response Metzenbaum 's request .
`` We nothing hide , concerned institutional interest , '' Rule said .
He provided explanation interest .
Metzenbaum said scheduled hearing requested data concern `` administration abandoned nation 's historical commitment effective antitrust enforcement .
'' `` The green light , '' said .
`` Merger mania rampant country ... serving u well .
'' Rule countered low inflation interest rate continuing economic expansion meant administration 's policy working well .
He said simply looking number challenge filed pending merger misleading reason believe fixed proportion merger anticompetitive .
`` If look individual case rather statistic , see appropriately enforcing antitrust law , '' Rule said .
Metzenbaum 's view , however , bolstered National Association Attorneys General , group top state law enforcement official .
`` The federal assault antitrust comprehensive , '' Robert Abrams , attorney general New York chairman group 's antitrust committee , told panel .
`` The reduction enforcement exacerbated federal attempt prevent state attorney general private party enforcing law accordance clear meaning Supreme Court interpretation , '' Abrams said .
The group drafted merger guideline bring uniformity attorney general ' effort enforce law state level .
Reuter & # 3 ; 