Rockwell International Corp raising 200 mln dlrs offering note due 1997 yielding 7.682 pct , said lead underwriter Daiwa Securities America Inc. An officer Daiwa 's corporate syndicate desk said believed Rockwell 's first debt offering since 1984 , company tapped Euromarkets .
Daiwa , U.S. unit Daiwa Securities Co Ltd Japan , become first foreign bookrunner U.S. corporate debt market year .
The firm sustaining trend first emerged early 1986 , investment banker said .
Daiwa headed syndicate Rockwell note competitive bidding .
Rockwell net interest charge 7.722 pct issue , Daiwa officer said .
The Japanese firm bid note 98.473 set coupon 7-1/2 pct reoffering price 98.75 yield 46 basis point comparable Treasury security .
Underwriters away syndicate said believed 46 basis point spread Treasuries aggressive .
They said premium 50 basis point would appropriate .
`` It look like Daiwa submitted kamikaze bid get business , '' said one competitor .
However , Daiwa officer defended firm 's pricing deal .
`` Because Rockwell floated debt since 1984 , company 's note issue museum piece , '' said .
The officer said believed Rockwell paper would sell quickly , mostly company well known tapped debt market three year .
`` Investors hungry high-grade debt issued household name , '' agreed one corporate bond trader .
Non-callable seven year , issue rated Aa-2 Moody 's AA Standard Poor 's .
Daiwa became second foreign firm manage offering domestic debt market September 1986 competitive bidding 125 mln dlrs 10-year first mortgage bond General Telephone Co California , unit GTE Corp & lt ; GTE > .
It followed lead UBS Securities Inc , U.S. unit Union Bank Switzerland .
UBS first deal June 1986 bid , , 100 mln dlrs Allied-Signal Inc & lt ; ALD > debenture due 2016 .
UBS brought two negotiated deal marketplace .
UBS led late June offering 100 mln dlrs five-year note issued Transamerica Financial Corp , subsidiary Transamerica Corp & lt ; TA > .
That following September UBS priced sole underwriter 100 mln dlrs Borg-Warner Corp & lt ; BOR > note due 1991 .
In early December Nomura Securities International Inc became third , far last , foreign security firm manage U.S. offering .
The U.S. unit Nomura Securities Co Ltd Japan , acting sole underwriter , competitive bidding 250 mln dlrs extendible note General Electric Credit Corp , subsidiary General Electric Co & lt ; GE > .
The Rockwell deal Daiwa 's second lead underwriter .
Last December , Daiwa Nomura named primary dealer Federal Reserve , along L.F. Rothschild , Unterberg , Towbin Inc Security Pacific National Bank .
UBS , Nikko Securities Co International Inc Yamaichi International ( America ) Inc also applied Fed primary dealership status .
Primary dealer considered elite group firm approved purchase U.S. Treasury security directly Fed 's agent , Federal Reserve Bank New York , investment banker explained .
Reuter & # 3 ; 