South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae said nation would maintain trading surplus three five year way cut foreign debt .
He said interview Reuters year likely South Korea would drop barrier foreign good move toward balanced trade position .
He said present trade surplus vital nation reduce 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt .
Rha said 1986 first year South Korea trade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs , 1985 deficit 900 mln dlrs .
Asked South Korea would drop trade barrier foreign debt substantially reduced , said `` yes , I think .
'' Rha made remark end two-week trade mission team led agreed buy U.S. product valued 1.8 billion dlrs .
About 800 mln dlrs purchase good type South Korea normally bought Japan .
Rha leave later today Ottawa trade talk Canadian official businessmen .
He said interview U.S. purchase reduce country 's 7.1 billion dlr surplus United States also cut 5.6 billion dlr shortfall Japan .
Rha said also due shift exchange rate U.S. dollar yen made cheaper buy U.S. good Japanese good .
He said South Korea heavily relied foreign trade hoped leader major trading nation could find way resolve growing trend toward protectionist legislation .
Rha said `` I hope leader get together find solution making mutually satisfactory concession .
'' But added `` leader seem hesitant make concession domestic political reason .
'' Speaking country , said `` We made lot concession already .
'' He cited regulation permitting foreign investment industrial firm , allowing increased foreign banking activity cracking piracy intellectual property strengthening protection copyright patent .
Rha said South Korea also lowered many tariff .
Asked South Korea would retaliate U.S. good Congress closed U.S. market product , said `` moment , thought retaliation .
'' South Korea major exporter United States textile apparel electronic good , television set , video cassette record personal computer .
Its puchases United States include electronic testing equipment grain cotton .
The trade mission 's purchase included three Boeing passenger plane 400 mln dlrs , four McDonnell Douglas plane 300 mln dlrs ; machinery worth 725 mln dlrs .
Reuter & # 3 ; 