Ecuador , stricken severe earthquake , seeking negotiation private foreign bank postpone payment due rest year , Finance Minister Domingo Cordovez said .
He said statement , `` The idea foreign bank obtain best term give Ecuadorean economy complete relief period deferral payment foreign debt present year .
'' The statement referred payment due private foreign bank , senior government finance official told Reuters .
These creditor hold two-thirds Ecuador 's foreign debt total 8.16 billion dlrs .
It refer debt maturing foreign government multilateral lending agency , accounting remainder Ecuador 's foreign debt , official said .
He said Ecuador owed private foreign bank 450 500 mln dlrs interest payment rest 1987 66 mln principal payment maturing year .
Cordovez said Ecuador would seek new loan multilateral organisation .
A World Bank mission due soon evaluate emergency loan , government official said .
Ecuador also appealed emergency aid 40 foreign government .
Government official calculated loss 1987 budget last Thursday 's earthquake 926 mln dlrs .
In 1986 , Ecuador 's total service foreign debt 996 mln dlrs creditor .
The quake ruptured Ecuador 's main oil pipeline , suspending crude export five month line repaired .
Oil account two-thirds total export 60 pct total revenue .
Before tremor , Ecuador suspended interest payment January 31 private foreign bank .
Officials said stopped interest payment due cash-flow squeeze stemming slide world oil price , cut 1986 export 25 pct 2.18 billion dlrs .
Ecuadorean finance official telephone contact every day week bank sit 14-bank advisory committee , senior government finance official said .
The committee represents country 's 400 private foreign bank creditor .
Cordovez also said statement , `` The bank perceive impossible moment comply forseen .
'' Cordovez added , Ecuador must make new proposal line reality since earthquake seeking better option deferment softening negotiation condition .
'' Interest payment fall due least monthly private foreign bank .
Ecuador 's initial proposal earlier year make one semi-annual one annual interest payment year .
Under proposal , sought defer interest payment June earliest , foreign banker government official said .
Ecuadorean official held last formal meeting advisory committee New York January , negotiation suspended January 16 due 12-hour kidnapping President Leon Febres Cordero air force paratrooper .
The Red Cross say least 300 people died least 4,000 missing due earthquake .
REUTER & # 3 ; 