International effort redirect Japan's export-driven economy toward domestic consumption face heavy going country 's largest defence contractor world's biggest shipbuilder anything go .
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd & lt ; MITH.T > ( MHI ) , began making ship iron good Japan 's military ruler 130 year ago , responding strong yen redoubling effort maintain share export market .
`` If sell best quality cheapest product , everyone buy , '' MHI president Yotaro Iida said .
Although two MHI 's main business , shipbuilding power plant construction , hit hard yen 's 40 pct rise dollar , company plan abandon , Iida told Reuters interview .
Its big activity , aircraft component manufacture , performed well MHI account half money Tokyo spends defence procurement year .
`` We made utmost effort among world's manufacturer improve productivity , '' said .
`` You may surprised come see plant .
The outside old inside ultra-modern , robot computer .
'' Securities analyst major security house agreed MHI pared cost quickly competitor .
The company slashed workforce 47,000 86,000 1976 .
Despite cost-cutting , MHI expects profit drop 40 pct 30 billion yen current fiscal year ending March 31 , 1985/86 's record 50.14 billion .
And includes gain sale MHI 's stake Mitsubishi Motors Corp & lt ; MIMT.T > 49 billion yen .
Iida optimistic future , however .
He said resurgence demand Middle East following recent recovery oil price coupled persistent demand power plant developing country help MHI restore exports-to-sales ratio past decade 's average 30 pct .
MHI 's exports-to-sales ratio fell 25.9 pct half-year ended last September , 35 36 pct five year ago .
China promising market , although MHI also considers non-oil-producing developing country major customer .
`` Our customer seen trouble due lack foreign currency , '' Iida said .
But added felt MHI could sell market Japanese government financial support .
It also finance plant recover investment product sale , strategy Iida said could prove popular future .
In shipping , MHI fighting back low-priced South Korean competition building technologically advanced carrier carry liquefied natural gas product difficult transport .
Shipbuilders Association official told Reuters MHI world 's largest shipbuilder term order capacity .
Domestically , MHI involved 12 national project , including development nuclear fusion reactor launch vehicle man-made satellite .
It biggest contractor Japan Defence Agency 's F-15 F-14 jet fighter missile , although built licence U.S. Firms .
MHI heading five Japanese company seeking develop country 's fighter plane replace currently used F-1 support fighter late 1990s .
Military expert said Washington putting strong pressure Tokyo buy U.S .
Plane , either McDonnell Douglas Corp F-18 General Dynamics Corp F-16 , reduce Japan 's huge trade surplus U.S. `` It might good idea jointly produce plane U.S. Makers Japan supported U.S. Defence umbrella , '' Iida said .
MHI also plan cooperate U.S .
In Strategic Defence Initiative space defence program participating project move research stage , said .
The U.S. Has seeking Japan 's technological support .
In fiscal 1985/86 , aircraft accounted 17.1 pct MHI's sale , shipbuilding 17 pct power plant 27.9 pct .
Iida said ideal ratio power plant 30 pct , aircraft special vehicle 25 pct shipbuilding 15 pct .
As remaining 30 pct , Iida said wanted shift domestic focus away heavy machinery sold manufacturer towards household good , declined specify product .
`` By end year , may find brand name daily product , although mean run away mainstream business , '' said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 