Taiwan 's new control currency inflow , implemented today , desperate bid stem flood speculative money prompted local currency surge U.S. Dollar , local foreign banker said .
The central bank clear remittance exceeding one mln U.S. Dlrs earned export , shipping insurance bank lending plus remittance 10,000 dlrs source .
Petitioners show remittance relate genuine commercial transaction .
Meanwhile , trader longer required report outward payment concerning invisible trade , including freight , insurance royalty , central bank .
But banker said believed new control would ineffective since businessmen could split remittance smaller unit simply remit money Taiwan's flourishing currency black market .
The banker said control , announced March 6 , panic reaction U.S. Pressure , intensified past week , faster appreciation Taiwan dollar slow growth Taiwan 's export U.S .
The government denied local press report Washington pressing exchange rate 28 dlrs .
The Taiwan dollar opened four cent today 34.70 .
`` I n't think central bank final target , '' said executive U.S. Bank .
Other banker economist said wary making firm prediction far Taiwan dollar rise .
Taiwan 's trade surplus U.S. Hit 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year 10.2 billion 1985 .
The surplus widened first two month year 2.35 billion dlrs 1.87 billion period last year .
Economists estimate five billion dlrs speculative money flowed Taiwan 1986 .
This inflow helped boost foreign exchange reserve 51 billion dlrs 25 billion time last year provided upward pressure currency .
The Taiwan dollar appreciated almost 15 pct U.S. Currency since September 1985 , encouraging speculator .
Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng said last week Washington 's pressure plus rising foreign exchange reserve meant strengthening currency inevitable .
Many local banker argue effective solution currency problem drop foreign exchange control allow local dollar find level .
`` Lifting exchange control final answer , central bank prepared .
It simply want take risk , '' said one local banker .
He said believed new restriction temporary measure designed buy time central bank grapple exchange rate problem .
The restriction bureaucratic imposition skirt around real issue , said .
Taiwan need fundamental restructuring foreign exchange control , said executive western bank .
`` The control create paperwork , extra bank charge outweigh profit speculation , '' said manager European bank .
Economists criticised control , saying could antagonise Washington , pushing economic liberalisation Taiwan .
`` Instead liberalising outflow , government restricted inflow , '' said Kate Newman , economist Vickers da Costa .
A local banker , declined named , said , `` It's basically ridiculous .
It 's backward movement go government 's liberalisation programme .
'' Taiwan last year eased financial regulation enable Taiwan national invest foreign government bond , treasury bill certificate deposit allow individual take 5,000 U.S. Dlrs cash country year .
REUTER & # 3 ; 