French stockbroker lose jealously guarded 180-year-old monopoly share trading next five year reform announced Tuesday Finance Minister Edouard Balladur .
But prospect fresh money flooding seriously under-capitalised share trading business , sign regret gradual passing era .
`` It question survival London 's Big Bang , '' said private market analyst Edouard Cointreau .
Balladur said long-expected reform Bourse structure progressively allow domestic foreign bank buy stake stockbroker ' capital , time broker allowed access money market .
The project foresees free access Bourse January 1 , 1992 , date set opening unified European financial market .
The planned reform , expected put Parliament end Spring session , open capital 45 Paris 15 regional stockbroker house three stage beginning January 1 next year .
The aim move , following example Tokyo London opening tightly-controlled membership , '' take challenge European financial integration fierce international competition , '' Balladur announced .
Cointreau , founder chairman private market analysis company Centre d'Observation et de Prospective Sociales ( COPS ) , said reform natural development .
`` The Paris market rising go ever .
The broker know 's good time sell part business , '' told Reuters .
The reform inevitable given European Community directive , said Ben Williams Paris brokerage house Fauchier-Magnan .
`` From French point view one disappointed , '' said , `` broker must bit worried entirely evident brokerage house worth lot money .
'' He said expansion market generally quality brokerage staff would well reform salary term .
`` But whole expertise deep bank already lot expertise .
'' Dealers agreed generally allowing broker reinforce equity capital , reform expected improve ability take large position stock bolster liquidity Paris market .
The French Banking Association , grouping domestic foreign bank operating , welcomed reform .
French bank , direct access bond market last September , never happy stockbrokers' continuing monopoly share trading .
Brokers said soon say form link foreign brokerage house bank might take .
`` Nobody willing talk yet one sure alliance formed past year , '' Williams said .
Some broker said opening capital bank could pose question whether major bank might aim stake prestigious best-performing brokerage house , whether smaller house might targetted swallowing give bank easy entry onto Bourse .
Individual bank reticent likely strategy future partner .
`` Discussions get underway soon specific choice ( broker ) made yet , '' spokesman Credit Lyonnais declined named said .
Balladur 's project touch dealing commission many dealer said question addressed since current bank commission higher broker bank , deal directly share , pay fee broker use customer trading .
According study Bourse official watchdog body COB January , dealing fee transaction share gross total 1,000 franc 14.86 pct order placed directly broker , 20.79 pct order passed bank .
Xavier Dupont , Chairman Stockbrokers ' Association , said reform would mean end fixed scale commission .
He said overall reform would give French financial market `` dynamic efficient organisation .
'' But broker banker commented , `` let 's wait see .
'' REUTER & # 3 ; 