The worst may Japan 's battered economy economist said expect vigorous recovery anytime soon .
Japanese bank economist polled Reuters said economy 's 18 month-old slowdown likely end first half year , helped rising export , stepped-up government spending falling price .
`` The economy bottom middle year , '' said Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist , Masahiko Koido .
Industrial Bank Japan Ltd senior economist Susumu Taketomi agreed .
`` It ( bottom ) offing , '' said .
But added recovery slow .
Growth fiscal year beginning next month pick-up 2.2 pct , two pct current year , said .
Signs economy weathered worst increasing .
The volume export first two month year rose slightly year-on-year basis , declining toward end last year .
Although may due extraordinary factor sharp rise car export rebuild depleted European stock , several economist said could mark beginning recovery .
Industrial production fell 0.7 pct January , much smaller expected , forecast government rise 0.3 pct February 2.6 pct March .
A Bank Japan survey released last week showed decline Japanese corporate earnings may nearing end .
And Paris currency accord last month fostered hope rapid yen rise come end , said .
Six nation - U.K. , Canada , France , Japan , U.S. And West Germany - pledged Paris last month stabilise currency around current level .
The yen 's 40 pct climb dollar last two year hit export-driven economy hard , forcing company raise price lose sale U.S. Market .
`` The important thing exchange rate , '' Taketomi said .
If stabilises firm grow confident raise investment plant equipment , although sign yet , economist said .
A stable yen would also help exporter regain competitive edge U.S economy may starting recover , economist said .
Domestically , economy may get boost loosening government 's tight fiscal policy said Haruo Muto , manager national economics Bank Tokyo Ltd .
The next reading economy 's health come early next week release gnp figure last quarter , 1986 .
Most private economist expect rise 0.5 pct previous quarter .
In third quarter , GNP rose 0.6 pct .
But senior government official said fourth quarter figure could surprise showing rise one point quarter-on-quarter .
But added would statistical aberration significant shift economic activity .
To maintain year-on-year growth around 2.5 pct , economy would rise 1.2 pct fourth quarter final quarter 1985 strong .
The rise fourth quarter 1985 probably statistical anomaly repeated final month 1986 , official said .
Economists said fourth quarter figure also distorted government 's sale gold coin second half 1986 .
Because coin classified legal tender , purchase show statistic consumer expenditure .
Consumer spending also tailed December bad weather smaller-than-normal end-year bonus , said .
As government buy back coin retailer unsold , government's contribution economy fourth quarter may boosted , economist said .
Taketomi said may received boost government buying farm product domestic crop last year good .
The senior government official said fourth quarter performance domestic sector probably worse generally expected , external sector better .
REUTER & # 3 ; 