Most Japanese company decided renew term contract lift Iranian crude oil spot price remain considerably lower OPEC 's official level , industry source said .
They said cargo Mideast benchmark crude Dubai traded yesterday 16.50 dlrs barrel , compared official price 17.42 dlrs .
Only one Japanese company renewed term contract Iranian crude oil second quarter , source said .
The source said Japanese company lifting total 185,000 barrel per day ( bpd ) Iranian crude term contract , one firm agreed lift second quarter .
It lifting 10,000 15,000 bpd .
They said move could inspire Iran offer discount cargo loading April , likelihood discount depended largely level spot price .
`` If spot price Dubai go 17.30 dlrs would probably buy Iranian crude official price , '' one Japanese refiner said .
`` We n't intend put pressure , '' added .
Buyers little incentive renew contract lift oil official OPEC price spot price grade considerably lower , oil trader said .
They said spot price move higher problem finding OPEC crude purchase official price .
Qatar chartered floating storage crude oil finding buyer official price March .
The problem likely recur April , adding country 's surplus .
The trader added Iraq dissociated OPEC 's December production agreement , agreeing fixed price .
But oil analyst said OPEC keep group output close first-half 1987 ceiling 15.8 mln bpd , supply demand would balanced end second quarter .
They also said OPEC hold official price structure based reference price 18 dlrs , spot price fluctuation limited 16.50 17.20 dlrs range Dubai 17 18 dlrs range North Sea 's Brent blend .
One Japanese refiner said , `` At moment 's lot pressure OPEC , particularly Qatar .
But hold problem , I 'm beginning trust ability .
'' Nigerian oil minister OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman told news conference Lagos yesterday , `` Nigeria member country OPEC remain determined uphold December agreement adhering strictly various quota official selling price .
'' He said OPEC believed consumer drawn heavily stock crude oil refined product , reducing level well time last year .
He said consumer would soon return market search crude .
A Japanese refiner said , `` The European U.S. Markets beginning look better OPEC might quite lucky .
'' & # 3 ; 