The Reagan Administration sent Congress proposed legislation would require Congress reflect cost federal loan subsidy government's budget .
The legislation would require Congress approve subsidy loan , sell many loan private sector shortly made buy private reinsurance many guaranteed loan .
White House official estimated reinsurance premium could amount six billion dlrs year private company .
The bill would make little impact federal deficit payroll , official said .
The legislation would alter term federal credit program .
But official said would pleased Congress tightened program seeing true cost set budget .
The program would call immediate sale many newly made direct federal loan , would effect existing federal loan portfolio .
Some already proposed sold previous administration program .
Exempt sale requirement would loan made Commodity Credit Corp commodity loan program , government considers commodity purchase program rather credit program , defaulted guaranteed loan , government considers direct loan .
Also excluded sale requirement would foreign loan , though official said may point consider selling Export-Import Bank loan .
Officials said government loan program currently amount 252 billion dlrs direct loan 450 billion dlrs guaranteed loan year .
Officials said U.S. agency asked calculate approximate cost loan subsidy looking comparable loan marketplace .
The administration asking Congress begin reflecting cost subsidy fiscal 1988 budget , House Budget Committee plan begin marking late next week .
Officials said reform , adopted across-the-board affected congressional committee , would lower federal deficit 100 mln dlrs fiscal 1988 .
Officials said administration hope sell total 13.0 billion dlrs loan asset fiscal 1988 , including 1.8 billion dlrs loan asset credit reform program 11.2 billion dlrs loan asset already governemnt 's portfolion .
In fiscal 1989 , administration hope sell 8.9 billion dlrs loan , including 1.3 billion dlrs loan credit reform program 7.6 billion dlrs existing portfolio .
Reuter & # 3 ; 