Bolivia make formal offer next month buy back 900 mln dlrs debt commercial bank discount 90 pct , central bank president Jier Nogales said .
Nogales told Reuters interview steering committee Bolivia 's creditor bank agreed consider offer meeting New York last month .
He said offer would based value Bolivian paper international secondary debt market , trade 10 15 pct face value .
Nogales said Bolivia make single offer buy back commercial debt bank accepted would paid discounted rate full .
Banks declined offer would repaid 20 30 year interest rate fixed international market , added .
Bolivia frozen payment medium long term loan commercial bank since March , 1984 , Nogales said would money available restart traditional debt servicing time .
Several Latin American country initiated scheme cancel foreign debt equity swap third party buy-backs , Bolivia would first country region make formal offer buy back commercial bank debt discounted rate .
Nogales said practical strategic consideration would determine exact timing offer would made next month .
He said Bolivia would bargain creditor bank price paid debt paper hold , would make single non-negotiable offer .
He said Bolivia could even pay interest friendly creditor country , let alone commercial bank .
The traditional way forward capitalise interest , would mean greater bank exposure Bolivia greater loss provision , added .
`` We confident bank going reasonable , '' Nogales said .
`` Now resolve problem .
'' `` The conservative one want little wait year , I n't know window opportunity open time , '' added .
Discussing status part Bolivia 's four billion dlr foreign debt , 2.5 billion owed government rest international agency , Nogales said negotiator achieved considerable success recent discussion Paris Club .
He said Paris Club creditor agreed reschedule Bolivian debt 10 year five six year grace , accepting interest would paid 1989 .
Interest rate discussed bilateral basis Paris Club rule , added .
He said Paris Club member agreed disregard penalty interest payment negotiation continuing Argentina Brazil , hold 700 mln dlrs Bolivian debt .
He said Bolivia continuing service loan international agency , expected receive 400 mln dlrs disbursement year .
The capital flow loan servicing changed negative balance 250 mln dlrs 1985 net inflow 130 mln dlrs last year , added .
Nogales said Bolivia 's net international reserve stood around 250 mln dlrs , compared one mln dlrs disposable fund government Victor Paz Estenssoro took office August , 1985 .
Nogales said inflation , soared 20,000 pct year government 's first month office , 10 pct annualised basis last six month , plan continue level .
He said government also expecting least three pct growth gdp year several year negative rate .
Reuter & # 3 ; 