Live cattle future posted robust rally today major beef packing company said would end lockout slaughtering plant Dakota City , Neb .
April delivery cattle Chicago Mercantile Exchange closed 64.45 cent pound , 0.83 cent , market expected demand live animal increase plant restarts operation .
Iowa Beef Processors , division Occidental Petroleum , said planned reopen plant , one largest nation , March 16 .
The plant closed since Dec. 14 , day contract IBP Local 222 United Food Commercial Workers Union expired .
The plant employ 2,800 worker slaughter several thousand animal day , company spokesman said .
The company said locked union worker threatened disrupt operation .
It unclear whether union meatpackers would return work .
They rejected company's latest contract offer March 5 .
Traders said cattle price advanced midsession rumor circulated lockout ending , gain fueled noticeable increase demand live animal cash market Nebraska Texas Panhandle .
The rally cattle also boosted value live hog frozen pork belly , also supported indication producer expanding hog herd slower rate previously expected .
Petroleum future posted modest rally New York Mercantile Exchange .
But report Soviet Union planned reduce price crude oil export may pressure market Friday , said Nauman Barakat , petroleum analyst New York Smith Barney , Harris Upham Co. Buying company deal petroleum helped price recover early weakness , trader said .
Gold future rallied , partly response strength silver market , Commodity Exchange New York .
Silver price rallied U.S. brokerage house recommended customer buy metal , trader said .
Coffee future drifted lower response report Colombia lowered price export , trader said .
Sugar price closed slightly higher Coffee , Sugar Cocoa Exchange despite large export sale European Commission Wednesday .
Soybeans higher , wheat lower corn mixed Chicago Board Trade .
Soybeans boosted expectation Agriculture Department would report healthy signup Conservation Reserve Program , pay farmer leave highly erodible land idle instead planting crop , trader said .
Concern strike Brazilian seaman might interrupt export soybean Brazil , harvest beginning , also underpinned price , said .
Wheat price pressured selling response trend price chart , said .
Reuter & # 3 ; 