U.S. bank reserve , monetary discount window borrowing data released Federal Reserve today clearly indicate policy `` hold '' may changed week even month , economist said .
`` The Fed keeping policy dead center change policy unless something fairly dramatic occurs economy , '' said John Williams Bankers Trust Co. `` These number contain hint policy shift prospect , economic financial development argue policy change , '' said William Griggs Griggs Santow Inc. Fed data released today line economists' expectation similar number recent week .
The Fed said net discount window borrowing two week ended Wednesday averaged 191 mln dlrs , 381 mln dlrs February 25 statement period , little changed 160 mln dlrs period .
It said bank ' net free reserve latest two week averaged 660 mln dlrs versus 675 mln dlrs previously .
Finally , Fed said M-1 money supply fell 800 mln dlrs February , broader M-2 measure 1.6 billion dlrs M-3 even three billion dlrs .
Analysts said M-1 last month grew negative 1.3 pct annual rate compared minus 0.7 pct M-2 actual positive growth 1.0 pct annualized M-3 .
February level M-2 M-3 left aggregate 18.2 20.8 billion dlrs respective upper growth limit set Fed 1987 .
The annual growth target 5-1/2 8-1/2 pct .
There M-1 target .
`` In near term , absolutely reason Fed ease policy , even apart slowdown money growth , '' said Stephen Slifer , economist Lehman Government Securities Inc. Economists generally expect modest pickup monetary growth March February 's anemic growth rate .
However , stress money growth strong enough prevent Fed dropping interest rate economy show evidence weakness .
Commenting February 's decline key M-2 aggregate , Slifer said main cause 3.2 billion dlr drop money market deposit bank .
This number risen three four billion dlrs month long , said , February's weakness likely persist .
Slifer expects modest M-2 M-3 growth rate 3-1/2 four pct March .
Griggs said M-2 M-3 coming month return five seven pct annualized growth region continue present problem Fed .
Economists said Fed appears comfortable current policy stance likely wait perhaps several month economic data deciding whether ease grip reserve .
Given economy 's fragility many sector , analyst agreed almost chance Fed choose raise , rather lower , interest rate next change policy .
`` Discount window borrowing past week low Fed get , although Fed fund held six pct , '' said Williams Bankers Trust .
Funds averaged 6.12 pct week Wednesday , 6.06 pct prior week .
The Fed added reserve indirectly via one billion dlrs customer repurchase agreement last Friday , 2.5 billion dlrs Monday two billion dlrs Wednesday .
On Tuesday , added reserve directly two-day System repurchase .
Williams Griggs agreed Fed let fund rate largely market-driven .
They said focusing instead borrowing target around 300 mln dlrs .
Reuter & # 3 ; 