Colombia intends improve marketing coffee accent flexibility setting export registration price , finance minister Cesar Gaviria said .
Speaking reporter announcing lower export registration price , reintegro , 1.10 dlr per lb ex-dock New York , Gaviria said export mechanism would agile .
`` In first stage , decided lower reintegro also adopt flexible policy reintegro allow private exporter participate actively Colombia 's coffee export policy , '' said .
Traders said mean export registration price change often truer reflection market trend .
Gaviria said measure merely responded new market factor since return system International Coffee Organisation ( ICO ) export quota may occur short term .
ICO talk last month London failed break deadlock re-introduction export quota , suspended February 1986 .
Gaviria stressed Colombia necessarily suffer depressed price compensate lower price increased volume .
`` Colombia continue export traditional amount coffee , 9.6 10 mln bag ( 60 kilo ) , without agreement among producer , '' said .
He ruled much higher volume export , 13.5 mln bag mentioned market circle , `` idea precisely disrupt market .
'' Colombia exported record 11.5 mln bag 1985/86 coffee year ended last September 30 .
Echoing Gaviria 's word , Jorge Cardenas , manager national coffee grower ' federation , said Colombia sought adapt coffee marketing policy circumstance .
`` There great expectation world policy Brazil Colombia adopt .
Ours beginning emerge agreement among producer foreseeable immediate future , '' told journalist .
Trade source Rio today said Brazil 's future export policy unlikely revealed end next week .
Cardenas said new ICO meeting could take place problem hindered agreement recent London talk resolved .
Asked comment Reuter report Jakarta saying Indonesia hoped Colombia could use contact Brazil suggest compromise quota issue , Cardenas said Brazilian stand quite clear .
He said Brazil 's current quota `` reflects reality market , allows orderly supply satisfies demand , '' added clarity needed ass criterion determined .
Cardenas said low registered immediately failure London talk triggered widespread fear among dealer imminent price war belief producer would go sell coffee quickly possible , happen .
Reuter & # 3 ; 