Senior U.S. Economic official disagree likelihood government meet budget deficit reduction target .
Beryl Sprinkel , chairman Council Economic Advisers , reiterated Reagan Administration 's opposition tax increase pledge reduce deficit cutting spending fostering economic growth .
By contrast , Rudolph Penner , Director Congressional Budget Office , said budget process broken deficit remain close 200 billion dlrs fiscal 1987 .
Sprinkel told symposium sponsored New York University spending could cut avoiding decision based desire influence vote shifting responsibility local project state government .
He also suggested line-item veto , allows President veto part bill without rejecting , limit wasteful spending .
Spending taxing decision linked closely .
Sprinkel said Administration still look 2.7 pct growth U.S. Real gross national product ( GNP ) 1987 3.5 pct 1988 .
Asked latest economic report signal rate economic growth attainable , Sprinkel said , `` It look pretty good .
We 've two strong employment report .
'' He also said federal reserve policy appropriate , adding , '' It look like 're track .
'' While reduction needed trade deficit , Sprinkel said lower dollar impact .
The new 1987 tax law hurt economy tax reform act 1986 significantly lower tax rate greatly increase private production incentive , said .
`` Our estimate Council Economic Advisers suggest national net output good service permanently increase approximately two pct long-run consequence tax reform , '' Sprinkel said .
`` In 1986 , would amounted increase approximately 600 dlrs income average American family .
'' Sprinkel also argued 1981 tax cut responsible large increase budget deficit .
In fiscal 1986 ending September , federal spending amounted 23.8 pct GNP , federal receipt absorbed 18.5 pct GNP , leaving deficit 5.3 pct , said .
Sprinkel said , compared fiscal 1978 , 1986 federal expenditure share GNP 2.7 percentage point higher revenue share GNP virtually .
`` Contrary conventional wisdom , therefore , 1981 tax cut root cause extraordinary budget deficit past year , '' Sprinkel said .
`` This tax cut merely rolled back inflation-induced tax increase occurred 1978 1981 , '' added .
However , Congressional Budget Office 's Rudolph Penner argued tax cut 1981 misguided .
`` Since making big mistake 1981 cutting tax enormously without plan decrease spending Administration Congress , indeed increase defence spending , option ( reducing budget deficit ) unpleasant , '' said .
Penner said tax cut resulted ideological turmoil U.S .
Caused `` biggest sustained inflation nation 's history , '' helped foster widespread distrust government .
`` The American people turned government tax revolt state level new demand government national level , '' Penner said .
`` But dislike tax exceeded general dislike spending program .
Now correction 1981 mistake demand system change lot .
'' Penner see little hope Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget deficit reduction target met said deficit remain roughly 200 billion dlrs year .
He said budget process set target arbitrarily likely succeed .
`` I feel pretty safe saying process try dictate numerical outcome doomed fail simply 's ... Way enforce , '' Penner said .
Penner questioned method 1987 budget deficit cut .
He said 18 19 billion dlrs eliminated one-time measure , temporary increase tax related tax reform sale government asset .
`` Another four billion dlrs cut I call creative timing change , like moving military payday last day fiscal 1987 first day fiscal 1988 .
That saved two billion dlrs , '' Penner said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 