A Foreign Ministry official dismissed argument made senior U.S. Government official seeking block sale U.S .
Microchip maker Japanese firm .
`` They appear linking completely unrelated issue , '' Shuichi Takemoto Foreign Ministry 's North American Division told Reuters .
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige asked White House consider blocking sale & lt ; Fairchild Semiconductor Corp > Japan 's Fujitsu Ltd & lt ; ITSU.T > , U.S. Officials said yesterday .
Baldrige expressed concern sale would leave U.S. Military dependent foreign company vital high technology equipment .
Pentagon official said Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger also opposes sale .
U.S. Officials also said sale would give Fujitsu powerful role U.S. Market supercomputer Japan 's supercomputer market remains closed U.S .
Sales .
Takemoto said national security issue since planned purchase Fairchild current owner , Schlumberger Ltd & lt ; SLB > , include Fairchild 's main defence-related division .
In addition , Takemoto said tension supercomputer trade affect sale Fairchild make supercomputer .
Analysts noted Fairchild make sophisticated microchip used supercomputer .
Fujitsu make similar chip supply U.S. Supercomputer maker , said .
Takemoto also dismissed U.S .
Fears proposed takeover would violate U.S .
Antitrust law , saying `` purchase would result Fujitsu monopolising U.S. Semiconductor market .
'' Two separate issue appear come together boost pressure block purchase , industry analyst said .
The move part attempt force Japan open domestic market U.S. Supercomputer sale , said .
U.S. Officials repeatedly charged Japanese public sector closed U.S. Supercomputer sale despite U.S. Firms ' technological lead field .
`` The United States belief Japan react bullied , bullying ploy , '' Salomon Brothers Asia analyst Carole Ryavec said .
However , analyst said stake supercomputer sale U.S .
Fears losing vital semiconductor industry Japanese competitor .
`` The real issue xenophobia ( U.S. ) Silicon Valley , '' said Tom Murtha brokerage James Capel Co. U.S.-Japanese tension semiconductor trade failed subside despite recent effort Japan 's Ministry International Trade Industry ( MITI ) get Japanese firm abide bilateral pact aimed halting predatory pricing opening Japan 's market .
A MITI official said Japan faithfully abiding agreement , problem remain halting sale microchip Europe Southeast Asia price set pact .
`` It matter time solve problem , '' told Reuters .
Despite furore , Fujitsu proceed talk acquisition line basic agreement reached Schlumberger last year , Fujitsu spokeswoman told Reuters .
REUTER & # 3 ; 