The United States week signaled pressing commercial bank , increasingly disenchanted providing large cash loan debtor nation , develop new way financing prove acceptable side .
Heading challenge Third World debt strategy , U.S. official also say think concession made debtor enact reform speeding inflation-free growth .
In particular , stress new technique shift emphasis debt equity shave interest rate .
`` The strategy sufficiently broad initiative concept additional emphasis debt-equity swap sort thing , '' Reagan administration official said slow pace commercial bank lending Third World .
`` The debtor performing well ... people argue taking 1-1/8 pct 13/16 pct debt forgiveness .
Well 's , fine .
What really narrowing spread could charged new money , '' official said .
This week , therefore , U.S. official signaled backing novel proposal Philippines called partial payment interest tradeable investment note .
On Tuesday , official said Treasury Secretary James Baker told Secretary State George Shultz idea creative one signaled approval Philippine Finance Minister Jamie Ongpin later day .
An administration official told Reuters week Philippines ' proposal partially pay interest investment note instead cash considered seriously bank .
An agreement bank , official say , expected soon .
`` New bank lending slow materializing fact matter 70 billion dlrs bank loan restructured , form extension credit .
As know , 's 8.5 billion dlrs new money , '' said official , play key role keeping plan afloat .
The plan launched October 1985 Secretary Baker called commercial multilateral bank lend 29 billion dlrs subsequent three year major debtor undertaking reform promoting economic growth .
But taken almost six month complete syndication 7.5 billion dlrs loan Mexico , created deep misgiving liklihood large straight cash loan assembled ever .
U.S. official want bank consider swapping debt equity local corporation -- development already met success Chile Mexico -- pin loan specific project , finance trade invest directly debtor country private sector .
These form lending , say , give bank greater stake economically secure return investment .
In major challenge U.S. plan , Brazil last month declared moratorium interest payment followed world tour official seeking political way 109 billion dlr debt burden .
The country beset falling trade surplus dwindling reserve endangering ability service foreeign debt , 109 billion dlrs Third World 's largest .
One official attending Washington talk Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro said `` 've come said `` Look , 're money , help u , '' haven't come plan .
And 've gone world , every stop 've told thing .
'' The official said Brazil would enact credible economic program , either consultation World Bank International Monetary Fund , cool overheated economy commercial bank would begin negotiation .
As result Brazilian action , private bank major debtor nation redoubled effort reach agreement stretching debt repayment .
For part , administration signaled strong support new technique case effectively amount interest rate concession major debtor nation .
It pressed bank allow Chile make annual instead bi-annual interest payment , speeding accord .
Administration official , asked named , also debated whether allow bank greater flexibility building loan loss reserve Third World loan .
The debate center rule , known FASB-15 , bank experiencing delayed interest payment real estate loan need set aside reserve debt principal believed payment resume .
More recently , rule extended cover farm energy loan Senator Bill Bradley , New Jersey Democrat , suggested extended Third World loan .
Bradley prominent among Congressmen urging provision debt relief attached tough new trade legislation considered Capitol Hill .
But official said debate inconclusive .
Reuter & # 3 ; 