Investor Sumner Redstone , lead one two group vying control Viacom International Inc , offered sweeten bid company 1.50 dlrs share cash 1.50 dlrs security .
In filing Securities Exchange Commission , Redstone , control Dedham , Mass. , -based National Amusements Inc , theater chain operator , offered raise cash portion Viacom offer 42 dlrs share 40.50 dlrs .
Redstone also raised face value preferred stock offering 7.50 dlrs six dlrs .
The Redstone offer , made Arsenal Holdings Inc , National Amusements subsidiary set purpose , also give Viacom shareholder one-fifth share Arsenal common stock takeover .
Viacom said earlier today received revised takeover bid Redstone MCV Holdings Inc , group led Viacom management competing Redstone control company already formal merger agreement Viacom .
The company disclose detail revised offer , said special committee board would review later today .
The Redstone group , 19.5 pct stake Viacom , management group , 5.4 pct stake , agreed buy share company merger completed , unless purchase part tender offer least half outstanding stock .
The two rival also signed confidentiality agreement , give access Viacom 's financial record provided keep information secret .
In SEC filing , Redstone , estimated cost completing takeover 2.95 billion dlrs , said Bank America confident raise 2.275 billion dlrs .
Besides financing would raise bank syndicate , Bank America also agreed provide separate 25 mln dlr limited purpose partial financing committed provide another 592 mln dlrs , Redstone said .
Merrill Lynch , Pierce Fenner Smith Inc increased underwriting commitment 175 mln dlrs subordinated financing debt Viacom takeover , 150 mln dlrs agreed underwrite earlier , Redstone said .
Redstone said group would contribute 475 mln dlrs equity toward takeover .
The Redstone equity contribution takeover would consist group 's 6,881,800 Viacom common share least 118 mln dlrs cash , said .
The new offer , second sweetened deal Redstone proposed month-long bidding war management , also contains newly drawn proposed merger document , said .
Last week , management group submitted called last offer company , valued 3.1 mln dlrs consisting 38.50 dlrs share cash , preferred stock valued eight dlrs share equity new company .
Redstone's previous offer valued 3.2 billion dlrs .
Reuter & # 3 ; 