Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro flatly rejected U.K .
Suggestion country seek International Monetary Fund help order facilitate debt negotiation commercial creditor bank .
Talking reporter , Funaro said attitude would help resolve crisis started Brazil suspended indefenitely interest payment 68 billion dlrs external debt February 20 .
Funaro Britain first leg tour European capital explain motif Brazilian debt moratorium seek support intiatives improve capital flow developed country third world debtor nation .
Talking departure Paris , said could question Brazil adopting another IMF austerity plan similar package four year ago `` put Brazil big recession .
'' `` We IMF program - simply meant export import le .
We going go IMF , '' said .
Funaro reactnng British statement following talk Chancellor Exchequer Nigel Lawson , saying U.K. Government part play viewed problem Brazil commercial creditor bank .
Britain also believed IMF program would help along negotiation Brazil commercial bank , statement , banking source interpreted outright rebuttal Brazilian demand , said .
`` That impression meeting , '' Funaro said ; `` But ( British ) answer le like , mean nothing helping find solution .
'' Funaro stressed talk Washington last week Europe week aimed gaining official support unblock lending official credit agency , rather deal Brazils tie commercial bank .
`` Since 1982 , official agency closed country , '' said .
He said Lawson made commitment support Brazil's effort .
Lawson would officially state position two meet next month IMF World Bank spring meeting Washington , Funaro said .
Stressing binding time schedule Brazil's debt problem resolved , Funaro said Brazil come Europe specific proposal overcome present crisis .
`` We n't come make cash-flow programme , '' said , '' We meeting IMF next month - let 's see happens .
'' Neither Brazil plan major overhaul current domestic economic policy , Funaro said would likely lead five pct economic growth year .
`` Over past five year paid back 45 billion dlrs received 11 billion ... This big effort , '' said .
`` What offer cooperation .
'' Reuter & # 3 ; 