French industry failing produce good market need loss competitiveness left government little room manoeuvre reflate economy , Organisation Economic Cooperation Development said .
With gross domestic product likely grow 2.1 pct year , rate last year , unemployment could climb 11.5 pct workforce mid-1988 , present 10.9 pct , said annual review French economy .
The report said French economy `` increasingly ill-adapted demand '' selling good `` uncompetitive relative price domestic export market .
'' `` France 's poor export performance reflects geographical bias favour market le dynamic average ... And ... A substantial loss market share ... In past 18 month , '' said .
Pointing likely widening French trade deficit around 2.9 billion dlrs year 2.4 billion 1986 , warned depreciation dollar franc could lead `` ( renewed ) loss competitiveness relative United States also newly industrialised country .
'' This could result major loss market share , particularly non-OECD area , account almost quarter French export , said .
Until competitive ability industry improved , authority would `` little scope macroeconomic manoeuvre , even unemployment situation need encourage pickup investment could require demand grow briskly , '' added .
But rising unemployment could help hold wage demand , contributing slowdown inflation around two pct annual rate year early next , OECD said .
Written mainly December last year , report took account rise oil price early 1987 , 0.9 pct surge January consumer price , caused partly government 's deregulation service sector tariff .
`` We took bet freeing price would provoke runaway rise , absolutely certain bet lost , '' one OECD official commented .
OECD official said January data rise oil price 15 dlrs barrel average assumed report , indicated upward revision inflation forecast around 2.5 three pct .
The government last week revised forecast 2.4 2.5 pct two pct , last year 's 2.1 pct .
But OECD backed government 's view underlying trend inflation remained downwards year , slowdown domestic cost taking last year's fall oil commodity price chief cause disinflation .
With French unit productivity cost among lowest OECD area , inflation differential France main trading rival , West Germany , could fall one pct year , said .
On hand , report noted , consumer price industrial good private service rising steeply company built profit .
`` For disinflationary process continue , price competitiveness become lastingly compatible exchange rate stability , essential wage restraint continue , '' said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 