The failure International Coffee Organization ( ICO ) reach agreement coffee export quota could trigger massive selloff London coffee future least 100 stg per tonne today , coffee trade source said .
Prices could easily drop low 1.00 dlr even 80 cent lb year around 1.25 dlrs , said .
A special meeting importing exporting country ended deadlock late yesterday eight day talk set quota .
No meeting discus quota set , delegate said .
Quotas , major device used stabilize price International Coffee Agreement , suspended year ago price soared following damaging drought Brazil .
With propects quota sight , heavy producer selling initially price war among commercial coffee roasting company ensue , trade source predicted .
Lower price sure trickle supermarket shelf spring , coffee dealer said .
The U.S. And Brazil , largest coffee importer exporter respectively , laid blame breakdown talk .
Jon Rosenbaum , U.S. Assistant trade representative delegate talk , said statement council adjourned , `` A majority producer , led Brazil , prepared negotiate new distribution based objective criterion .
`` We want insure country receive export quota based ability supply market , instead political influence ICO .
'' Brazilian Coffee Institute ( IBC ) President Jorio Dauster countered , `` Negotiations failed consumer tried dictate quota , negotiate .
'' Previously , quota determined historical amount exported , gave Brazil 30 pct share global market 58 mln 60-kilo bag .
A majority producer wanted quota continue basic scheme .
But consumer maverick group eight producer proposed carving export market basis exportable production stock , would reduce Brazil's share 28.8 pct .
Consumer delegate said method would reflect change many country ' export capability make coffee readily available consumer need .
A last-minute attempt Colombia , second largest exporter , rescue talk compromise interim proposal could bring two side together .
Delegates speculated Brazil 's financial problem , illustrated recent suspension interest payment bank debt , increased political pressure country protect coffee export earnings .
Developing coffee-producing country depend heavily coffee earnings , particularly African nation Colombia , likely hurt ICO 's failure agree quota , analyst said .
The expected drop price could result loss much three billion dlrs year , producer delegate forecast .
The ICO executive board meet March 31 , full council due meet September , delegate said .
REUTER & # 3 ; 