Early dollar straight eurobond trade quiet currency sector , particularly eurosterling , continuing perform strongly , closely reflecting current trading pattern foreign exchange , dealer said .
Eurosterling bond continued rise steadily , bolstered extremely ebullient tone U.K. Government bond market combination positive U.K. Economic fundamental .
The dollar initially stabler dollar straight bond static dull trade .
A handful issue showed sign weakness dealer said investor awaiting today 's release U.S .
Leading indicator January .
The U.S. Data due afternoon expected weak , placing U.S. Unit renewed pressure robbing market dollar-denominated eurobonds fresh trading impetus , one dollar straight trader said .
`` It 's going another tedious day I ca n't see anybody going make money , '' said .
Eurosterling issue continued rally back general sterling euphoria -- U.K. Currency trading six month high interest rate optimism strength domestic equity market .
Eurosterling bond saw early gain half point .
However , eurosterling dealer noted bond could soon fall back marginally -- expected -- professional stepped take profit current healthy level .
Trade mark-denominated bond expected subdued today due pre-Lenten carnival festivity West Germany .
There sign reawakened investor nerve affecting trade floating rate note market yesterday started week extremely quietly hectic sell-off last week .
FRN dealer said paper U.S. -- also Canadian -- bank seeing pressure result recent press report focussing exposure Latin American debt .
`` ( Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson ) Funaro 's visit Europe also brought spotlight back onto debt crisis thing le quietened following first shock statement last week , '' one FRN specialist said .
Despite dearth activity dollar straight secondary market , two new dollar issue early feature primary market .
These five year 150 mln dlr deal launched Morgan Guaranty Ltd Saab Scania 7-3/4 pct priced 101-3/4 pct .
The issue 100 mln dlr deal -- also due 1992 -- NV Nederlandse Gasunie paying 7-1/4 pct priced 101-1/8 pct , Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd lead manager .
Dealers predicted reasonable demand issue due mainly lack fresh , good name paper market .
REUTER & # 3 ; 