China called United States remove curb export , give favourable trading status ease restriction export high technology .
But U.S. Embassy replied Chinese figure showing 13 year trade deficit U.S. Out last 15 inaccurate said Peking would persuade Congress change law limit export .
The official International Business newspaper today published China 's demand editorial coincide visit U.S. Secretary State George Shultz .
`` It extremely important U.S. Market reduce restriction Chinese import , provide needed facility businessmen side help expand Chinese export , '' editorial said .
`` The U.S. Should quickly discard prejudice favourable tariff treatment Chinese good admit China Generalised System Preference ( GSP ) .
`` Despite easing curb U.S. Technology export recent year , control still extremely strict influence normal trade two country , '' added The paper also printed article China 's commercial counsellor Washington embassy , Chen Shibiao , said `` kind difficulty restriction '' preventing bilateral trade fulfilling full potential .
He named U.S .
Protectionist behaviour , curb technology transfer out-of-date trade legislation .
The paper also printed table showing , since bilateral trade began 1972 , China deficit every year except 1972 1977 .
It show 1986 1985 deficit 2.09 billion 1.722 billion dlrs .
A U.S. Embassy official said U.S. Did accept Peking 's trade figure , mainly exclude good shipped Hong Kong trans-shipped U.S .
While U.S .
Figures based country origin .
He said , China want obtain GSP status , lobby Congress persaude amend several law currently prevent Peking getting status .
The U.S. Trade Act 1974 say qualify GSP , China must member General Agreement Tariffs Trade ( GATT ) , applied July 1986 , `` dominated controlled international Communism .
'' The official said China well aware law , date anti-Communist early 1950 's , sufficient political U.S. To change .
China subject dozen case involving anti-dumping U.S .
Within last two year , U.S. Side , said .
But , first time , China signed last week agreement initiated voluntarily restrain export least two category steel good , may lead U.S. Side withdraw anti-dumping case , added .
Another diplomat said willingness provide voluntary export restraint would important issue bilateral trade issue Peking 's application GATT .
`` China potential disrupt world market , especially textile .
Other GATT country nervous China respect .
But precedent centralled planned economy GATT , '' diplomat said .
Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary Romania member GATT none China 's massive market potential import vast labour pool produce cheap export .
In speech today northeast city Dalian , U.S. Secretary State George Shultz said country welcomed China 's interest participating GATT .
`` The process Chinese accession accomplished overnight -- GATT rule designed large economy Chinese type , '' Shultz said .
`` China play important role actively joining GATT discussion seeking expand general trading opportunity enhance market access export worldwide .
China develop foreign trade system gain maximum benefit GATT participation , '' said .
The problem facing U.S.-China trade GATT membership similar -- pricing system many foreign businessmen regard arbitrary related actual cost , especially export , de facto dual currency system .
In memorandum backing application presented GATT last month , China said gradually reforming economic system replacing mandatory instruction `` guidance planning '' economic lever .
The diplomat said , join GATT , China much .
REUTER & # 3 ; 