American Express Co remained silent market rumor would spinoff part Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc , analyst said company may considering move unhappy market value stock .
American Express stock got lift rumor , market calculated partially public Shearson may command good market value , thereby boosting total value American Express .
The rumor also accompanied talk financial service firm would split stock boost dividend .
American Express closed New York Stock Exchange 72-5/8 , 4-1/8 heavy volume .
American Express would comment rumor stock activity .
Analysts said comment company analysts' meeting Tuesday helped fuel rumor announcement yesterday management change .
At meeting , company official said American Express stock undervalued fully reflect performance Shearson , according analyst .
Yesterday , Shearson said elevating chief operating officer , Jeffery Lane , added position president , vacant .
It also created four new position chairman operating division .
Analysts speculated partial spinoff would make sense , contrary one variation market rumor total spinoff .
Some analyst , however , disagreed spinoff Shearson would good since strong profit center American Express , contributing 20 pct earnings last year .
`` I think highly unlikely American Express going sell shearson , '' said Perrin Long Lipper Analytical .
He questioned would better investment `` profitable security firm .
'' Several analyst said American Express need cash , might reason sell part strong asset .
But others believe company could well considered option spinning part Shearson , one rumor suggests selling 20 pct market .
Larry Eckenfelder Prudential-Bache Securities said belief American Express could considered partial spinoff past .
`` Shearson profitable would fetched big premium market place .
Shearson 's book value 1.4 mln dlr range .
Shearson market place would probably worth three 3.5 bilion dlrs term market capitalization , '' said Eckenfelder .
Some analyst said American Express could use capital since plan expand globally .
`` They enormous internal growth plan take capital .
You want stock reflect realistic valuation enhance ability make kind endeavor road , '' said E.F. Hutton Group analyst Michael Lewis .
`` They 've outlined fact 're investing heavily future , go heavily international arena , '' said Lewis .
`` ... That preclude acquisition divestiture along way , '' said .
Lewis said American Express reduced exposure brokerage business selling part shearson , stock might better reflect asset , travel related service business .
`` It could find true water mark lesser exposure brokerage .
The value component could command higher multiple constitute higher percentage total operating earnings company , '' said .
Lewis said Shearson contributed 316 mln after-tax operating earnings , 200 mln dlrs 1985 .
Reuter & # 3 ; 